Trump Ends Deal Between M.L.B. and Cuban Baseball Federation - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBaseballSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBaseball|Trump Ends Deal Between M.L.B. and Cuban Baseball FederationAdvertisementSupported byTrump Ends Deal Between M.L.B. and Cuban Baseball FederationImageLos Leneros de las Tunas, a Cuban baseball team, before a Caribbean Series game in Panama City in February.CreditCreditArnulfo Franco/Associated PressBy David Waldstein and Michael TackettApril 8, 2019President Trump, reversing an agreement negotiated by the Obama administration, abruptly ended a deal between Major League Baseball and the Cuban Baseball Federation that had eased the path for players to compete in the United States without defecting from their country.The Trump administration said that the deal constituted a violation of trade laws because the Cuban federation was part of the government in Havana — a departure from the previous administration’s stance.In a letter to M.L.B.’s outside counsel, which was obtained by The New York Times, Nikole Thomas, the acting assistant director for licensing at the Office of Foreign Assets Control, outlined the U.S. government’s opposition to the deal, which stipulated that the Cuban federation would receive 25 percent of a player’s signing bonus for a minor league player and between 15 and 25 percent for a major league player.The letter said that the O.F.A.C. had “determined that M.L.B.’s payments to the Cuban Baseball Federation are not authorized” because “a payment to the Cuban Baseball Federation is a payment to the Cuban government.”News of the administration’s rejection of M.L.B.’s plan was first reported by The Wall Street Journal and ESPN.Cuban sports entities, including its baseball federation and Olympic committee, have argued they are independent of the central government, but the Trump administration rejected that assessment.“The U.S. does not support actions that would institutionalize a system by which a Cuban government entity garnishes the wages of hard-working athletes who simply seek to live and compete in a free society,” said Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council. “The administration looks forward to working with M.L.B. to identify ways for Cuban players to have the individual freedom to benefit from their talents, and not as property of the Cuban state.”In a statement, M.L.B. said: “We stand by the goal of the agreement, which is to end the human trafficking of baseball players from Cuba.”One M.L.B. official, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the matter, said the league had requested a face-to-face meeting with U.S. government agencies but were not granted one. M.L.B. was prepared to base its argument on the fact that the Obama administration had given it a license in 2016 to do business with the Cuban baseball federation, and that a Trump-era national security presidential memorandum published on June 16, 2017 promised the agreement would be grandfathered in. The memorandum stated that any new regulations “will not affect existing contracts and licenses.”Several U.S. business entities, including travel and telecommunications companies, do business in Cuba. But M.L.B. officials worried that, as a high-profile organization, its deal would be challenged by hard-liners in the government.John Bolton, the national security adviser, seemed to foreshadow the move on Sunday when he tweeted: “Cuba wants to use baseball players as economic pawns — selling their rights to Major League Baseball. America’s national pastime should not enable the Cuban regime’s support for Maduro in Venezuela.”Cuba has produced some of the best players currently in the major leagues, including Aroldis Chapman of the Yankees, Yoenis Cespedes of the Mets and Jose Abreu of the Chicago White Sox. They and most other Cuban players in M.L.B. left their country illegally, in some cases smuggled out by disreputable agents and human traffickers on speedboats and rafts over dangerous waters.“It’s bad in the sense that they can’t come anymore in the formal, legal way that was planned,” Chapman said on Monday.For some players, the dangers continued after they arrived because they were at the mercy of the smugglers.“To this date, I am still harassed,” Abreu, who has played for the Chicago White Sox since 2014, said in a statement issued at the time the deal was announced in December.M.L.B. and its players union sought to eliminate that dangerous process by creating a posting system similar to the one used with players from Japan and South Korea. Under the plan, a major league team seeking to sign a Cuban player would pay a posting fee to the Cuban federation, which would in turn allow the player to leave the country and return home at will. Just days ago, the Cuban federation released the names of 34 players it said were eligible to sign with M.L.B.“The objective of the agreement, which is the product of years of negotiations with the F.C.B., is to end the dangerous trafficking of Cuban baseball players who desire to play professional baseball in the United States,” M.L.B.’s lawyers said in their petition to the Treasury Department in January.M.L.B. and the Cuban baseball federation commenced talks after the United States and Cuba began a thaw in relations under the Obama administration in 2014. Soon after that, baseball’s commissioner’s office secured a license from the Treasury Department to legally begin negotiations with the Cubans.After announcing its agreement in December, M.L.B. quietly sought to convince administration officials — who immediately criticized the plan publicly — that it fit within the guidelines for an exemption to the trade laws. At the same time, M.L.B. officials were also resigned to the political opposition to the deal and the possibility of returning to the old method of signing Cuban players.James Wagner contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Citing Trade Laws, Trump Cancels Deal Between M.L.B. and Cuban Federation. 

Opinion | The Secret Death Toll of America’s Drones - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|The Secret Death Toll of America’s DronesAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Secret Death Toll of America’s Drones President Trump is making it harder to know how many civilians the government kills by remote control.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.March 30, 2019Image CreditCreditKevin Sudeith/Warrug.comThe Pentagon says American airstrikes in Somalia have killed no civilians since President Trump accelerated attacks against Shabab militants there two years ago.Amnesty International investigated five of the more than 100 strikes carried out in Somalia since 2017 by drones and manned aircraft, and in just that small sampling found that at least 14 civilians were killed.The Pentagon says airstrikes by the American-led coalition fighting the Islamic State killed at least 1,257 civilians in Iraq and Syria as of the end of January.Airwars, a university-based monitoring group, estimates that those strikes killed at least 7,500 civilians in those countries.Those disparities show how poorly the American public understands the human cost of an air war fought largely by remote-controlled drones. Drones have been the main weapon in the counterterrorism fight for more than a decade. They kill extremists without risking American lives, making combat seem antiseptic on the home front. But the number of civilians killed in these attacks is shrouded in secrecy.President Trump has made it even harder to lift that shroud, by allowing the Central Intelligence Agency to keep secret how many civilians are killed in the agency’s airstrikes outside of the Afghan, Iraqi and Syrian war zones — in places like Yemen, the lawless border region of Pakistan and North Africa.President Barack Obama aggressively expanded drone use in these airstrikes. But he eventually came to understand the need for more transparency and accountability, and, under pressure, he put some sensible safeguards in place.Among them was a July 2016 order requiring the government to issue annual public reports on the civilian death tolls in those areas.Mr. Trump revoked that order this month. His National Security Council called it superfluous because Congress had subsequently passed a law mandating that the Pentagon publicly report any civilians killed in any of its operations. But that law covered only the Pentagon, not the separate C.I.A. drone campaign, which has broadened under Mr. Trump.Experts say that, under President Trump, airstrikes have surged in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria, as well as in Somalia. In Yemen, it is unclear to what extent the Americans, as opposed to the Saudi-Emirati coalition, are responsible. In Afghanistan, the number of American strikes that killed or injured civilians more than doubled in the first nine months of 2018 compared with the corresponding period in the previous year and killed more than 150 civilians, according to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.Mr. Trump has also eroded constraints on civilian casualties.Since taking office, he has rescinded rules that required the military and the C.I.A. operating outside of hot battlefields like Afghanistan and Iraq to limit their targets to high-level militants rather than foot soldiers. He also, by eliminating an elaborate interagency approval process, gave military commanders more authority to order drone strikes.Yet, even under the previous rules, no matter how precise the weapons, how careful the planners and how skilled the fighters, mistakes, faulty intelligence, even calculated decisions often led to civilians being killed. The official data ranges from none to maddeningly vague, and the safeguards to mitigate civilian deaths are insufficient.The military adopted an elaborate system under the Obama administration to minimize civilian casualties, including a requirement that forces have “near certainty” that no civilian will be harmed before launching an attack. But reporting by The Times and others in 2017 showed that the Pentagon had killed far more civilians in Iraq than it acknowledged.The Obama administration estimated that over its two terms
drone strikes had killed
between 64 and 116 civilians in 542 airstrikes outside the major war zones. Micah Zenko, co-author of a new book, “Clear and Present Safety,” calculated the real tally at roughly 324.Drones, for all their faults, are less indiscriminate than B-52s or almost any other weapon. But they are also a seductive tool, potentially tempting presidents and military commanders to inflict grave damage without sufficient forethought.A lack of transparency and accountability for civilian deaths helps enemies spin false narratives, makes it harder for allies to defend American actions and sets a bad example for other countries that are rapidly adding drones to their arsenals. It could also result in war crimes, as some critics have claimed.Congress needs to insist on better data as the Pentagon inspector general investigates civilian casualty reporting.There is no such thing as combat without risk. With drone combat, much of the risk falls on innocents. Americans need to understand the full cost and consequences of those risks.RelatedOpinion | The Editorial BoardPreventing a Free-for-All With Drone StrikesMarch 16, 2017The Moral Case for DronesJuly 14, 2012The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR12 of the New York edition with the headline: The Secret Death Toll of America’s Drones. 

Our White House Photographer on Covering President Trump - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperLens|Our White House Photographer on Covering President TrumpAdvertisementLensSupported bylensOur White House Photographer on Covering President TrumpHaving covered the White House for over three decades, Doug Mills discusses the challenges of his job. ImagePresident Trump in the Cabinet Room, January 2018.CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesPhotographs by Doug MillsInterview by James EstrinMarch 8, 2019Leer en españolDoug Mills, a staff photographer for The Times, has been covering the White House since 1983. He spoke with James Estrin this week about photographing President Trump after he returned from covering the Hanoi summit with Kim Jong-un. The conversation has been edited for clarity and brevity.Q. How much time do you usually have when you photograph the president?A. With previous administrations, going back to Reagan, you were in a cabinet room for maybe two or three or four minutes. With Trump you can be in there up to 90 minutes. What does that mean photographically?Sometimes you feel like you’re a fly on the wall because you can pretty much move around the room, change angles and change lenses. You can study him and look for other people in the room.ImageMr. Trump with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, in Singapore, June 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageMr. Trump joined the national anthem at the national college football championship game in Atlanta, January 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesHow was this most recent trip to the Hanoi summit?On a foreign trip, there are a lot more variables, but nobody thought the president would answer questions when he was sitting next to Kim Jong-un, and certainly nobody expected that Kim Jong-un would actually respond to a U.S. reporter’s question. So we were in there a little more than we expected.It was negotiated that we could preset and wait for them to come into the room. That brought the temperature down so there wasn’t a complete scrum. I don’t think President Trump likes seeing the scrums either but they happen, no matter what, with everybody.But this one had more decorum and more formality — plus the North Korean photographers and the Americans were in different positions.The North Korean photographers like to be elevated because President Trump is taller than Kim Jong-un — so most of the U.S. still photographers, there were four of us, knelt down and the North Koreans stood above us, or up on ladders, so Trump wouldn’t look like he was so much taller.Are you concerned how the president might react to your pictures?President Trump obviously is a very visual person and he looks at The New York Times daily and online, and on Twitter. So he knows the pictures that I’m producing. People ask, does that make me think twice about taking pictures that are not flattering, and my answer is no.He’s told me about pictures that he hasn’t liked of mine on a couple of different occasions. He’s very camera-conscious. But he still makes compliments about me or my work.I appreciate his recognizing good and fair photography and I think that’s what I do. I have no agenda, and I photograph what’s in front of me, and it doesn’t matter whether I think he looks flattering or not flattering, or he looks upset or he looks happy — that’s irrelevant to me.My job while I’m in with the president at any event is to try to capture the most storytelling photograph. If it’s a meeting that is jovial or happy, then it’s going to show in the pictures. But if he’s upset or frustrated or angry then those pictures will reflect that.ImageMr. Trump with his wife, Melania, at an inauguration welcome concert at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, January 2017.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageThe president at Joint Base Andrews Base for a trip to Nashville, January 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageA picture of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's applause for Mr. Trump at his State of the Union address in February became a meme.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageMr. Trump at a news conference in the White House after the midterm elections, November 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesIs photographing this president different in any ways from the previous four you’ve photographed.Obama was the most photogenic president I’ve covered, and Trump is the most iconic. No matter where you see Trump, what light you see him in, what situation we photograph him in, you know right away it’s him. Whether it’s the hair, his tall stature, his black jackets, the 45 embroidered on his shirts. You just know it’s him.We have more access to him than we ever had to any other president that I’ve covered. Much more. We’re in photo ops much longer. He knows the power of driving the news cycle. And he does that day in and day out, and in order for him to do that we have to have access to him. He can drive it with Twitter, but if there’s a huge story going out that may not be positive to him, all of a sudden we’re in and there’s something else going on.When I photographed him in New York before he was president I found that he was very conscious about camera angles. He knows exactly what our job is.There was a controversy with Obama when there were fewer and fewer events that the press were allowed into and more situations where his photographer was taking pictures. That’s not what’s happening with Trump, is it? The Obama folks had a knack for controlling President Obama’s image, and circumvented the media by going around us through Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. There were a lot of situations that we normally would photograph but they chose to use their government photographer to photograph the event and then put it out on social media.There was a lot of criticism from photographers who covered Obama as well as the White House Correspondents Association and the White House News Photographers AssociationTrump calls the media fake news, and particularly criticizes The New York Times and The Washington Post, yet photographically you are having more access than with previous presidents you’ve covered.It does bother me when I hear him say that, because I know there’s nothing about my photographs that are fake. We are just there doing our jobs. Clearly I don’t think The New York Times is putting out any fake news.ImageMrs. Trump during a trip to Cairo, October 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageMr. Trump at a rally in Murphysboro, Ill., October 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageIvanka Trump, the president's older daughter, at Joint Base Andrews,
following a trip with him to Pittsburgh, January 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesWhen you have access to him it’s also less controlled in some ways.He is not very controlled. His aides can try to control an event, but President Trump will undoubtedly do something unexpected. He’s not a politician and he is not somebody who has been groomed by handlers. So he is more likely to go off-script, more likely to be himself, more likely to do things that are not done by traditional politicians, like letting us in for a cabinet room for 90 minutes.You’re on the White House Correspondents Association board. What do you do?I am the representative for the still photographers. And that includes all of the camera and sound people. I am constantly in contact with people who are making decisions about the media at the White House so all of us can do our jobs better and have as much access as we can as a group.You’ve covered George W. Bush, President Obama, and President Trump for The Times. Before that you also, for The Associated Press, covered Clinton, George H.W. Bush, and Reagan. How has it been different covering each of them?Every administration is different. You try to build a relationship of trust with every administration — that they know you’re doing your job fairly and have no agenda. Every administration, every president, treats photographers differently.Reagan was an actor, so when he went on stage he had this charisma and he would light up. His personality just grew as he spoke and as he gestured.Bush 41 had one of the closest relationships with photographers because he was vice president for eight years before becoming president. He knew a lot of us by first names and had a nickname for us, “photo dogs.” He would invite us to play horseshoes with him and to go jogging with him. He wasn’t trying to play us, that was just his personality. He respected what we did.When Clinton came in it was a totally different feel. We had plenty of access. He was very energetic and never stopped working. He loved rope lines, knew they made for great pictures and he seemed to get energy from going into a crowd and staying there for 30-40 minutes shaking hands after an event.His relationship with photographers was not as close as it was with Bush 41 and after the Lewinsky scandal there was less access.Because of his dad, Bush 43 really liked photographers. He’d also call us photo dogs. He was very athletic and would invite photographers to bike ride with him. He liked to hang out and talk to reporters and photographers at times, just to feel them out, mostly off the record while on the plane or at social events. He was a lot of fun to photograph. He didn’t have the stage presence of other presidents, but he was a character and would do things that made for good pictures.Obviously 9/11 was important in his presidency. That really drove the image of him being a strong president, although he was the first president I ever saw cry in the Oval Office.ImageHouse Speaker Paul Ryan, the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell and the minority leader, Senator Chuck Schumer attend a Congressional Gold Medal ceremony honoring the former senator Bob Dole on Capitol Hill, January 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImagePresident Trump walking to Marine One to leave for a trip to Utah, December 2017.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageMr. Trump onboard Air Force One, with a jacket from the crew, January 2017.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesWhen was that?Shortly after 9/11, he teared up while talking about the people who had been killed at ground zero.Well you had a unique experience with the younger Bush while you were with A.P., didn’t you?I was with him on 9/11, and I asked to go up on the plane with him. We were flying all over the country on the only aircraft in the air. I think he trusted me.Part of your job of course is journalistic but it’s also historical.We are in historic times. Trump’s presidency drives every photographer in town that I work with, and compete against, because there has been so much drama. You never know what’s coming next.ImageMr. Trump, seen in shadow, addressing a NATO summit meeting in Brussels, July 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageThe president at a fund-raising event in Sioux Falls, S.D., September 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesLike when he refers to The Times as the enemy of the people …Yes, that’s disturbing to me.Yet he speaks well of you during the summit with Kim last week, where he said you are “one of the best photographers in the world.”I think he obviously looks at my pictures and likes them — but not all of them. And that’s not my job, for him to like them all. I think he understands that I’ve been around there a long time and that I am a fair news photographer who does not have an agenda.ImageMr. Trump in the Rose Garden, October 2017.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesImageMr. Trump with President Vladimir Putin of Russia in Helsinki, Finland, July 2018.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesFollow @nytimesphoto and @JamesEstrin on Twitter. You can also find us on Facebook and Instagram. Follow Doug Mills on Twitter and Instagram. Doug Mills has worked as a photographer in the Washington bureau since 2002. He previously worked at The Associated Press, where he won two Pulitzer Prizes for his photography.
James Estrin, the co-editor of Lens, joined The Times as a photographer in 1992 after years of freelancing for the newspaper and hundreds of other publications.
@JamesEstrin A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: The 45th President, From All Angles. 

Opinion | A Dose of Moderation Would Help Democrats - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|A Dose of Moderation Would Help DemocratsAdvertisementOpinionSupported byA Dose of Moderation Would Help DemocratsThey can appeal to moderate voters without betraying progressive values.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistMarch 3, 2019ImageA number of Democratic presidential candidates are pushing for increasingly progressive ideas, like a Green New Deal. Are there risks in this move to the left?CreditCreditPete Marovich for The New York TimesThe energy in the 2020 Democratic campaign has been coming from the left. Candidates are pushing Medicare for All, a Green New Deal, a wealth tax and other ideas that are more progressive than anything a recent Democratic nominee has favored.Much of this shift — which has been focused on economic policy — is smart. Republicans may cry socialism, and affluent centrists may not love it. But the American public leans decidedly left on economics. A clear majority favors higher taxes on the rich, a higher minimum wage and expanded government health insurance. After four decades of slow-growing living standards, people want change.And yet there are also risks in the Democrats’ move to the left — risks that the sillier criticisms of the party’s new progressivism sometimes obscure.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]So far, the 2020 candidates have mostly been competing with one another to see who can come off as the most boldly and purely liberal. Bernie Sanders talks about completing his revolution. Kamala Harris has spoken about the joy that marijuana brings. Sanders, Harris and Kirsten Gillibrand have all talked about eliminating private health insurance. And so on.Ideological purity doesn’t tend to play well in general elections, however. Every modern president has found ways to appeal to Americans’ fondness for consensus — even if that fondness is based partly on a naïve view of politics and even if the candidates’ appeals have sometimes been more stylistic than substantive.Donald Trump campaigned as a defender of Medicare and Social Security. Barack Obama became a national figure by reaching out to both red and blue America. George W. Bush was a “compassionate conservative.” Bill Clinton followed a “third way.” Ronald Reagan put a sunny face on his conservatism.As frustrated as many Americans have become, most still don’t see themselves as radicals. About 35 percent call themselves moderate, compared with only 26 percent who say liberal, according to Gallup. Another 35 percent say conservative. Even among Democrats, only about half use the liberal label, with other half choosing moderate or conservative. Perhaps most fascinating, Gallup found late last year that most Democratic voters — by a margin of 54 percent to 41 percent — would rather their party move to the center than to the left. (Most Republicans, by contrast, want their party to continue moving right.) In another recent poll, by Monmouth, most Democratic voters said they would prefer a nominee likely to win the general election to one who shared their views on most issues.All of which suggests that the 2020 Democratic field would benefit from more candidates who made an effort to appeal to both the left and the center.Such a candidate might end up winning the nomination and crushing Trump. Or he or she could sharpen the eventual nominee, by getting that nominee to reach beyond the party’s liberal base.I expect that the campaign’s next phase will feature several candidates who try to do so. Obama, for example, has advised potential candidates that he “sees a relatively open space for a more moderate Democrat,” as The Times reported. Two Obama favorites who could have filled the role — Mitch Landrieu, the former New Orleans mayor, and Deval Patrick, the former Massachusetts governor — aren’t running.Joe Biden remains the most obvious possibility. Even without having entered the race, he continues to lead just about every poll of Democratic voters. Beto O’Rourke will probably run too, and he’s shown an intriguing appeal across the left and center. Democrats typically lose Texas by between 10 and 30 percentage points. O’Rourke lost his Senate race by fewer than three points, and his coattails helped elect some House Democrats.Amy Klobuchar is making a similar play. Her kickoff speech name-checked John F. Kennedy, Reagan, Martin Luther King Jr. and Walt Whitman. Similarly, John Hickenlooper, the former Colorado governor, described himself last week in Iowa as “a doer,” in contrast to the “dreamers and debaters” from Congress. Sherrod Brown, the Ohio senator, also has the potential to win self-identified moderates.Brown is a good case study, because he shows that appealing to the middle doesn’t mean abandoning progressive principles — as, say, Howard Schultz, the Starbucks billionaire and potential independent candidate, would. (Remember: The political center isn’t where most billionaires think it is.) Brown is a proud populist, a defender of unions and a critic of “corporate freeloaders.” But he also avoids casting himself as an out-of-the-mainstream lefty. He isn’t in favor of banning private health insurance. Since Obama’s 2012 re-election, Brown is the only Democrat to have won a statewide race in Ohio.As Geoff Garin, the Democratic pollster, said to me, voters don’t conduct fine-grained analyses of a candidate’s ideology: “They live in a world of character and personality and values.” Candidates can have an ambitious progressive agenda while also reaching out to swing voters. It’s still very early in the 2020 campaign, and all of the Democratic candidates have the ability to follow this path. Sanders can do so by emphasizing working-class issues that matter to voters across the ideological spectrum. Elizabeth Warren can talk passionately about family values — the real thing, not the fake version. Harris can present herself as an advocate for crime victims, whether the crimes were white-collar or violent.I understand why the Democrats have been focusing their attention on the left. It has a newfound — and welcome — energy. But the best strategy for beating Trump in 2020 doesn’t involve only the left. And beating Trump is terribly important.RELATEDMore from Opinion on the 2020 presidential election:Opinion: Don’t Ignore the ModeratesMarch 1, 2019Opinion | Jamelle Bouie: Sanders Has an Advantage, and It’s Not About EconomicsFeb. 21, 2019Opinion | Michelle Goldberg: A Woman to Vanquish TrumpJan. 21, 2019Opinion | Frank Bruni: What Kind of Democrat Can Beat Trump in 2020?Nov. 2, 2018The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.
@DLeonhardt • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: A Dose of
Moderation
For Democrats. 

Trump Administration Loosens Sage Grouse Protections, Benefiting Oil Companies - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexClimateSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperClimate|Trump Administration Loosens Sage Grouse Protections, Benefiting Oil CompaniesAdvertisementSupported byTrump Administration Loosens Sage Grouse Protections, Benefiting Oil CompaniesImageThe sage grouse, known for its distinctive mating dance.CreditCreditBob Wick/Bureau of Land ManagementBy Coral DavenportMarch 15, 2019Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Friday finalized its plan to loosen Obama-era protections on the habitat of the sage grouse, an imperiled ground-nesting bird that roams across 10 oil-rich Western states.The plan, which would strip away protections for the bird on nearly nine million acres of land in the West — making it easier for oil and gas companies to drill on that land — was first detailed in a draft proposal published in December. The sage grouse plan is the latest step in a series of moves by the Trump administration to promote oil and gas drilling on public land, in support of what President Trump has called a policy of American “energy dominance.” The architect of the plan, David Bernhardt, is a former oil lobbyist who now serves as acting head of the Interior Department.Mr. Trump has nominated Mr. Bernhardt to formally assume the position of interior secretary. “The plans adopted today show that listening to and working with our neighbors at the state and local levels of government is the key to long-term conservation and to ensuring the viability of local communities across the West,” Mr. Bernhardt said in a statement on Friday.Environmentalists criticized the plan as a giveaway to the oil and gas industry that would devastate the nesting habitat of the bird.“By punching oil-rig-sized loopholes through these plans, the administration will drive the sage grouse closer to an endangered species listing,” said Jesse Prentice-Dunn, policy director for the Center for Western Priorities, an advocacy group. “Unfortunately for the grouse, Bernhardt is also leading a charge to gut the Endangered Species Act.”Mr. Bernhardt has led an effort to overhaul the 1973 law, which was designed to protect the nation’s wildlife. He has pushed for changes such as requiring the federal government to take into account the economic impact of placing a species on the endangered species list. Currently, the law only requires that regulators take into account the scientific evidence showing whether a species is threatened.Under a sage grouse plan put forth in 2015, during the administration of former President Barack Obama, oil and gas drilling was banned or limited in 10.7 million acres where the bird lives, under a stringent designation known as “sagebrush focal areas.” The new plan would limit that designation to all but 1.8 million acres, mostly in Oregon and Montana.Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon, a Democrat, offered praise for the protections in her state afforded by the Trump administration’s plan.“Balancing sage grouse habitat protection and economic development requires mitigation of negative impacts,” she said. “This agreement is a critical step that marks a shift away from planning toward active conservation and landscape management to protect this iconic species. Oregon’s bounty is beautiful and worth continuing to protect and fight for.”More reporting on the sage grouse and endangered species actTrump Drilling Plan Threatens 9 Million Acres of Sage Grouse HabitatDec. 6, 2018Lawmakers, Lobbyists and the Administration Join Forces to Overhaul the Endangered Species ActJuly 22, 2018Law That Saved the Bald Eagle Could Be Vastly ReworkedJuly 19, 2018Interior Department to Overhaul Obama’s Sage Grouse Protection PlanSept. 28, 2017For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.
@CoralMDavenport • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Grouse Habitat Is Opened for Oil and Gas Production. 

Corrections: March 1, 2019 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexCorrectionsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperCorrections|Corrections: March 1, 2019AdvertisementSupported byCorrections: March 1, 2019Feb. 28, 2019NATIONALAn article on Thursday about white supremacism in the United States military misstated where Carter F. Smith teaches criminal justice. It is at Middle Tennessee State University, not Austin Peay State University.•A picture caption with an article on Thursday about Democrats’ health care proposals misstated when the photo of a rally for “Medicare for all” was taken. It was in February 2017, not last month.BUSINESSDisplay type included with an article on Thursday about a proposed federal regulation that would require carmakers to take steps to address the rise in carbon monoxide-related deaths from keyless vehicles misstated the number of such deaths since 2006. As the article correctly stated, there have been at least 33, not 28.SCIENCE TIMESAn article on Feb. 19 about NASA’s Opportunity rover misstated the number of Martian days that the rover operated. It was 5,111, not 1,511.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Monday about the Italian noblewoman and socialite Marella Agnelli referred imprecisely to an HBO documentary about her husband, Giovanni Agnelli. While it contained archival footage of Mrs. Agnelli, she did not participate in the making of it.•An obituary on Jan. 25 about Norman Goodman, the longtime clerk of New York County, referred incorrectly to the number of jury trials in Manhattan. While the borough has more criminal jury trials each year than any other jurisdiction in New York State, Brooklyn has more jury trials over all. This correction was delayed because the error was called to the attention of editors only recently.•An obituary on Tuesday about the epidemiologist Bill Jenkins, who tried to expose the unethical Tuskegee syphilis study in the 1960s, misspelled the given name of the director of the National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care at Tuskegee University. He is Dr. Rueben Warren, not Reuben. It also misspelled the surname of an epidemiologist who gave information about the study to The Associated Press. He is Peter Buxtun, not Buxton.LETTERSA letter on Thursday about the Obama Presidental Center referred incorrectly to the National Archives. It will indeed hold and manage former President Barack Obama’s records.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A24 of the New York edition with the headline: Corrections. 

Opinion | From Woke Bros to Cold Warriors: The Men of 2020 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|From Woke Bros to Cold Warriors: The Men of 2020AdvertisementOpinionSupported byFrom Woke Bros to Cold Warriors: The Men of 2020Yes, the women are making history. But the male candidates represent a historically diverse range of expressions of masculinity, and that’s good for everyone.By Richard DormentMr. Dorment is the editor in chief of Men’s Health.March 16, 2019Image CreditCreditIllustration by Doug Chayka; Photographs by Damon Winter/The New York Times, Sarah Silbiger/The New York Times, Doug Mills/The New York Times, Tamir Kalifa for The New York Times, and Travis Dove for The New York TimesThe 2020 presidential field is shaping up to have the most diverse group of candidates Americans have ever seen. That there’s a historic number of women leading the pack has been much discussed — and rightly so — along with just how “likable” these women may or may not be. Less discussed, however, has been the historically diverse group of men seeking the presidency, a motley crew of contenders that just got a bit motlier — Hi, Beto! — who could help redefine masculinity and power.Before you roll your eyes at the prospect of a male journalist interrupting this momentous time for female candidates to remind people that guys are running for president, too!, consider the current and would-be candidates. There’s Cory Booker, with his bear hugs and his celebrity girlfriend and his veganism. There’s Pete Buttigieg, with his military stripes and his schoolteacher husband. There’s John Hickenlooper, whom this newspaper recently deemed Colorado’s “geek in chief,” and there’s Bernie Sanders, patron saint of the dirtbag left. There’s Mr. O’Rourke, who is avocado toast incarnate — wholesome, trendy, Insta-friendly — and in the still-maybe-but-probably column, there’s Joe Biden, who is closer to corned beef hash. There are a bunch of others that you’ll have to Google, but the point is, that from woke bros to Cold Warriors, bridge builders to bomb throwers, we have never seen so many different expressions of manhood represented among the top-tier candidates — mostly because Americans have historically been interested in only one kind of man becoming their president.In their 1976 book, “The Forty-Nine Percent Majority: The Male Sex Role,” the social scientists Deborah S. David and Robert Brannon laid out the cornerstones of “our culture’s blueprint for manhood:” Be a Big Wheel; Be a Sturdy Oak; Give ’Em Hell; and No “Sissy Stuff” (quotation marks theirs). And that, for the longest time, was what it meant to be a normal American man. It meant domination. It meant solidity. It meant taking risks and holding back tears, and as a result, most of the men who ran for president fit some version of that mold. Sure, we’d see differences in background and temperament — the war hero (Dwight Eisenhower) versus the egghead (Adlai Stevenson); the outsider (Bill Clinton) versus the insider (George H.W. Bush); the everyman (George W. Bush) versus the elitist (John Kerry) — but by and large, they were white, heterosexual Christian men in pleated khakis.But men today live lives vastly different from their fathers’. They’re less likely to marry and have children, and when they do, they spend a lot more time with those kids than their dads could’ve imagined. They spend more time cooking and cleaning, and worry about work-life balance and spiritual fulfillment. They are more likely to cry openly, as John Boehner used to do all the time when he was the House speaker, and they are more likely to practice self-care, as Mr. Booker does with his regular mani-pedis. (His 2013 Senate opponent, Steve Lonegan, tried to make a thing of Mr. Booker’s nail-salon habit. “As a guy, I personally like being a guy,” Mr. Lonegan said. “I like a good Scotch and a cigar.” The thing didn’t become a thing: Mr. Booker won by 11 points.) They are more likely to say “Being a man is, first and foremost, being a good human” and that making masculinity about dominating others is “an old view,” as Barack Obama did last month.Politics has always been our national fun-house mirror, exaggerating the finer points of real life. And as our social concepts of masculinity have become more expansive and elastic, it was only a matter of time before our candidates began to break free from the Big Wheel model. This liberation should be celebrated: To see men who embody less traditional models of manhood competing at the highest levels of civic life is good for everybody. (Not that there isn’t still a ways to go: Lots of gender expressions remain unlikely to fly in presidential campaigns.)It might even be good politics as well: In a Pew Research Center survey last summer, an overwhelming majority of Americans considered “aggressive” and “masculine” to be negative personality traits while “kind” and “responsible” were viewed positively. Which brings us to the current president. “He is the almost cartoon of an alpha dog,” Glenn Beck said of President Trump recently. “And I think because we have taken alpha dogs and shot them all, when he comes to the table there’s a lot of guys that are out there going, ‘Damn right!’”Mr. Beck has a point, and we don’t need surveys to tell us that many voters, men as well as women, revel in Mr. Trump’s strongman persona and throwback masculinity. (No diaper changing for that guy!) But we also don’t need surveys to tell us that many voters think he’s a bully and a brute, and when they go to the polls — in the Democratic primaries or in the general election — they’re going to think about what kind of man, and what version of manhood, they might want to see in the White House. Do we want a man who has threatened to rough up an opponent, as Mr. Biden has done with Mr. Trump? Do we want a man who talks constantly about love, like Mr. Booker? What about a man who promises to stand up to bullies, like Mr. Hickenlooper? So many options, so many possible outcomes. And in the end, voters just might say they don’t want any man in the White House at all.RelatedMore on the 2020 presidential raceOpinion | Maureen DowdIs the Force With Beto?March 16, 2019Opinion | David LeonhardtElizabeth Warren Actually Wants to Fix CapitalismMarch 15, 2019Beto O’Rourke Is 46. Bernie Sanders Is 77. Does Age Matter Anymore for Democrats?March 16, 2019Richard Dorment is the editor in chief of Men’s Health.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR2 of the New York edition with the headline: The Diverse Men of 2020. 

When Foreign Leaders Send Presidents a Gift, Flattery Is Usually a Theme - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|When Foreign Leaders Send Presidents a Gift, Flattery Is Usually a ThemeAdvertisementSupported byWhen Foreign Leaders Send Presidents a Gift, Flattery Is Usually a ThemeImagePresident Trump meeting with Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader, in 2017. Mr. Abbas gave Mr. Trump an ornate portrait.CreditCreditStephen Crowley/The New York TimesBy Annie KarniMarch 7, 2019WASHINGTON — Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian leader, greeted President Trump in February 2017 with a portrait of the American president on mother-of-pearl panels, framed in white floral foliate.An official from Saudi Arabia presented Mr. Trump with a framed assemblage of 12 goldtone items in miniature relating to the kingdom, surrounding a sepia-toned photograph of the president, appraised by the State Department at $790.The prime minister of Vietnam gave the president a “gemstone painting” of Mr. Trump smiling against a backdrop of an American flag, made of stone granules, worth about $1,880.Flattery was a major theme of the gifts that Mr. Trump received from foreign officials in the first year of his presidency, based on the list published Thursday in the Federal Register. But that does not make the current president unique.Emerald-studded, gold-plated gift-giving has long been part of international diplomacy, with gifts from foreign officials often tailored to the publicly known interests of the man sitting in the Oval Office. Vaclav Havel, the former president of the Czech Republic, gave President Bill Clinton a goldtone saxophone with mother-of-pearl keys engraved with his signature, in honor of the instrument Mr. Clinton used to play “Heartbreak Hotel” on a TV talk show when he was a candidate for president.President Barack Obama, who during his 2008 campaign drew parallels between himself and President Abraham Lincoln, another son of Illinois, was given multiple busts of Mr. Lincoln by foreign leaders, according to Federal Register records.“Trying to find appropriate gifts to give to the president is always kind of a test of ingenuity of the donor,” said Gerald M. Feierstein, who served as ambassador to Yemen under Mr. Obama. “The intent of the gifts is to flatter, and to put the relationship on the best footing.”In the Trump administration, a common theme appears to be lavish portraits and paraphernalia depicting the commander in chief, a man known to be concerned with his own self-image.President Andrzej Duda of Poland, for instance, gave Mr. Trump a burgundy album containing 10 photographs titled, “President Donald J. Trump in New York,” a collection that included black-and-white photographs of Mr. Trump in his real estate developer days, as well as polychrome photographs of Trump Tower in Manhattan.Foreign officials also appear to have studied the family members who serve as Mr. Trump’s inner circle of White House advisers, the gift list shows.Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, for instance, was given a book, “The Jews of Singapore” by Joan Bieder, from Singapore’s minister of foreign affairs. Mr. Kushner is a practicing Orthodox Jew.A gift to Melania Trump, the first lady, from President Xi Jinping of China and his wife, Peng Liyuan, features an 85-piece porcelain dinnerware set. The set includes plates displaying hand-applied printed images of the pink house at Mar-a-Lago, the president’s Palm Beach, Fla., club where Mr. Trump hosted Mr. Xi for a summit meeting. The estimated value of the gift was $16,250.Satsuki Katayama, a Japanese politician in the House of Councillors, the upper house of Parliament, gave Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter and a senior White House aide, a golf club engraved with an American flag and her name, “Ivanka Marie Trump.” Ms. Trump famously told Wendy Williams, an American TV host, in 2013 that her common interests with her father included real estate and golf.The first lady and Ms. Trump, both known for their interest fashion, each received multiple designer handbags. And in 2017, King Abdullah II of Jordan presented the Trump grandchildren with a cigar box worth about $540.The most expensive gift given exclusively to Mr. Trump in 2017 was a $14,400 paper panel displaying five columns of black calligraphy, given to him by Mr. Xi in April 2017.When it comes to reciprocating, the United States is known to be “very chintzy,” Mr. Feierstein said. While foreign governments regularly give bejeweled, hand-painted gifts worth tens of thousands of dollars, “we used to give glass eagles and things that are not nearly equivalent to what we get,” he said.In 2009, for instance, after Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain gave Mr. Obama a pen holder carved from the timber of an antislave ship, he received in return a box set of American movies on DVD, setting of a cycle of critical coverage in the British news media.Gifts to the president are automatically turned over to the State Department. But presidents or their families are allowed to keep gifts if they purchase them from the government for the appraised value. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, would not say on Thursday whether Mr. Trump or any of his family members had purchased any of the gifts.Some of the gifts appeared farcical. Prime Minister Charles Michel of Belgium gave Mr. Trump a framed cartoon that depicted a cowboy eating out of a frying pan, while Indians approach from behind.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: When Foreign Heads Visit, Gifts of Flattery Are in Tow. 

Gridlock, the Latest American Import, Arrives in Brexit Britain - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexEuropeSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperEurope|Gridlock, the Latest American Import, Arrives in Brexit BritainAdvertisementSupported byGridlock, the Latest American Import, Arrives in Brexit BritainImagePresident Obama speaking before a gridlocked Congress during his final State of the Union address in 2016.CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesBy Ellen BarryMarch 13, 2019LONDON — Back in the Obama years, when a recalcitrant Congress was obstructing any major piece of legislation the president put forward, his adviser David Axelrod used to look envyingly across the pond at his British counterparts, who seemed to find it so easy to get things done.“We used to sit in the White House thinking it would be great to have a parliamentary system, where you’re guaranteed to rule with your allies,” he said.Then he laughed. “It doesn’t look very appealing now.”On Wednesday, the authority of Britain’s executive branch was diminished to a point not seen in recent history. The country watched an increasingly empowered group of backbench legislators take control of the government’s principal piece of legislation on the country’s exit from the European Union, suddenly altering the negotiating strategy sustained for more than two years by Prime Minister Theresa May.No more can Britain boast about its streamlined, predictable “Westminster model,” in which a strong executive presides over a unitary state.Fresh from her latest humiliation on Tuesday at the hands of rebel lawmakers, Mrs. May, during Wednesday’s parliamentary debate, learned from John Bercow, the pugnacious speaker of the house, that he might not allow her to bring her deal for Brexit, as the departure from the bloc is known, back to Parliament for another try.Then rebel lawmakers unexpectedly won a vote of 312 to 308, passing an amendment ruling out a no-deal exit — a not legally binding act, but putting moral pressure on Mrs. May to delay Britain’s long-promised exit from the European Union.Several members of her cabinet abstained in the vote, effectively turning against her.Welcome to something Americans know about: gridlock.“What we are seeing is a direct challenge to the Westminster model,” said Matthew Goodwin, a professor of politics and international relations at the University of Kent.Asked when Britain’s Parliament has last wrested control over policy from the government in this way, Mr. Goodwin said “crikey,” and guessed that it dated back to the Second World War.“What we may end up seeing is the legislature asserting control,” he said. “It’s not entirely clear how the executive in British politics can regain momentum without going back to the country” for another referendum or general election.ImageDuring the Obama administration, David Axelrod, an adviser to the president, used to look envyingly across the pond at his British counterparts, who seemed to find it so easy to get things done.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesMr. Axelrod’s three years as President Barack Obama’s senior adviser coincided with one of the longest stretches of severe gridlock in recent American history.After Mr. Obama’s early signature accomplishments, like the Affordable Care Act, Democrats lost control of the House of Representatives in 2010, and he struggled to muster any legislative victories.“It makes it hard for anything big to happen, any large decisions,” Mr. Axelrod said in an interview on Wednesday. “You can occasionally move things, but it’s very hard to get consensus around any big things, and that’s what they’re dealing with in Britain.”But he said gridlock also served an important purpose, restraining rash actions supported by a governing majority.“Here’s the thing: The founding fathers devised a system meant to move slowly when the country was deeply divided,” Mr. Axelrod said.The best way to survive a period of sustained gridlock, he added, is to incentivize lawmakers to compromise and reach consensus — a challenge in Britain, he acknowledged, in the current polarized political environment.He added, “I’d say a good belt of scotch would be helpful.”Another survivor of American gridlock is Alan K. Simpson, 87, who served for 18 years as a Republican senator from Wyoming.“Gridlock is a part of any democracy, and a very important part,” Mr. Simpson said Wednesday, in a telephone call from his hometown, Cody. “It forces compromise. You have to force it sometimes.”A salty, congenial elder statesman in Washington, Mr. Simpson was often consulted as a kind of guru on breaking out of partisan gridlock.He always gave the same advice: To get things done in a rigidly divided capital, lawmakers must seek each other out in person, and build trust far away from the glare of the media.“We had to meet in total privacy and then, sure enough, I’d say, ‘Don’t say anything, because we’re getting close,’ and then here come the camera lights, the camera lights were like moths, and then everything goes downhill,” he said. “Then you don’t trust anybody who was in the room. Trust is the coin of the realm, and now it is tarnished beyond polishing.”ImageParliament handed Prime Minister Theresa May her latest Brexit defeat on Tuesday.CreditMark Duffy/UK ParliamentHe allowed that this kind of trust-building has become more difficult, as social media has all but eliminated space for durable private relationships.“Now you don’t have time to do that, because you’re twittering, you’re tweeting, you’re instagramming, you’re over in the corner hitting your keys, and you become shriveled and testy,” he said. “People have lost the ability to talk to each other.”It cannot be said that gridlock encourages boldness in statecraft. The great legislative acts of American history — Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal and Lyndon B. Johnson’s Great Society programs — were enacted under large single-party majorities, said Norman Ornstein, a specialist in American politics at the American Enterprise Institute.“The American culture has been that we don’t do major social policy without finding a broad leadership consensus,” Mr. Ornstein said.In recent decades, periods of sustained and severe gridlock have become more common, he added. He pointed to Mr. Obama’s election as a dividing line, when routine opposition in Congress turned rigid and maximalist.“It’s a growing tribalism, not just polarization,” he said. “If you’re tribal and you view the other side as evil, working with them is a different challenge.”That said, he added, divided governments have proved “at least as effective at delivering reform.”“The system was built to have — not so much gridlock, a term that would not have meant anything to the framers — but to keep from impetuous action that comes from an inflamed majority,” he said.It was not clear what sort of system was being created this week in Westminster, as party discipline seemed to dissolve in real time and new groupings began to take shape around alternate Brexit policies.But the Tory lawmaker Kenneth Clarke — known as the Father of the House, because he has served in Parliament longer than any other member — spoke with mild amazement about the predicament in which Britain has found itself.“It’s almost three years since we had the referendum, and we have reached this quite extraordinary moment,” he said.“Effectively, we’re back to square one,” he continued. “There is absolutely no consensus, within the government, within the opposition party, within this Parliament or within the public, on exactly what ‘leave’ means. We’re having a debate today over whether, after three years of futility, in 16 days’ time we just give up and leave and see what happens.”“This is quite bizarre,” he concluded.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Britain Rides Back to Square One in a New U.S. Import: Gridlock. 

Texas Tech Medical School, Under Pressure From Education Dept., Will Stop Using Race in Admissions - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexU.S.SubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperU.S.|Texas Tech Medical School, Under Pressure From Education Dept., Will Stop Using Race in AdmissionsAdvertisementSupported byTexas Tech Medical School, Under Pressure From Education Dept., Will Stop Using Race in AdmissionsImageTexas Tech University Health Sciences Center will stop considering race in admissions, as part of an agreement reached with the Education Department.CreditCreditDavid Kozlowski/Getty ImagesBy Anemona HartocollisApril 9, 2019A prominent Texas medical school will stop considering race or ethnicity in deciding whether to admit applicants, as part of an agreement with the Education Department’s civil rights office.The president of the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center signed the agreement in February, 14 years after the department began investigating a complaint filed by an anti-affirmative action group. The agreement is the first of its kind for the Education Department under Secretary Betsy DeVos, and comes as the Trump administration continues its hard turn against the use of race in admissions.Roger Clegg, general counsel for the Center for Equal Opportunity, which filed the original complaint, said on Tuesday that the agreement could pave the way for similar actions at other schools.“It shows that the Trump administration is serious about enforcing the civil rights laws in a way that protects the rights of all Americans to be free from discrimination,” Mr. Clegg said. “The more schools that stop using racial preferences, the harder it will be for other schools to continue using racial preferences.”Affirmative action programs are under renewed scrutiny in courts and by federal authorities. Harvard University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill are both facing court challenges to their admissions procedures that could reach the Supreme Court. The Trump administration is investigating allegations of discrimination against Asian-American applicants at Harvard and Yale.The administration has made clear its position on the use of race in admissions, abandoning Obama-era policies that argued for the “compelling interests” of diversity to college campuses and encouraging race-neutral admissions methods.Jin Hee Lee, senior deputy director of litigation at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc., said the Texas Tech agreement was part of a broader pattern of chipping away at affirmative action.“In the larger context of this administration’s civil rights record, it’s clear that this is yet another attack on education equity,” Ms. Lee said. “We will continue to take steps to protect efforts aimed at improving education equity throughout the country.”The complaint by the Center for Equal Opportunity, which describes itself as a conservative civil rights organization, came after a 2003 Supreme Court ruling in the case of Grutter v. Bollinger. In that decision, the court upheld the use of race as a factor in admission to the University of Michigan Law School, saying that the school had a compelling interest in achieving diversity.Soon after, the Health Sciences Center School of Medicine and Texas Tech University, the undergraduate campus in the Texas Tech system, announced that they would begin considering race in admissions. Mr. Clegg challenged the decision on the ground that race should be used only as a last resort.But for the fall 2014 class, the undergraduate campus removed any consideration of race in admissions. As a result, the Education Department dismissed the case.The department continued to investigate the Health Sciences Center, and found that the medical school was continuing to use race-conscious admissions, according to documents in the case.The policies had a significant effect on the makeup of the medical school. Enrollment went from 9 percent Hispanic in the class that entered in 2004 to 16 percent in the class that entered in 2018. The university said that it was trying to recruit more Hispanic students in part to send more people to practice medicine in underserved communities in West Texas, according to documents in the case.Mr. Clegg said the investigation, which had begun during the George W. Bush administration, had lasted through the Obama years, “which suggests that even under a liberal Democratic administration, there were problems” with admissions practices.The medical school defended race-conscious admissions by saying it needed to recruit students who showed the “cultural sensitivity” that would allow them to serve racially diverse patients, according to a letter from the Education Department’s civil rights office. Federal officials were concerned that the medical school’s admissions process violated civil rights law.Eric D. Bentley, vice chancellor and general counsel of the Texas Tech University System, said in a letter to the civil rights office that while the medical school believed it was in compliance with the law, it was agreeing to stop using race in admissions “in an effort to resolve this matter and focus on educating future health care providers.”The decision was effective March 1, according to the agreement, and set a deadline of Sept. 1 to revise all admissions and recruitment materials to reflect the changes. It did not, the agreement said, constitute an admission that the university had run afoul of civil rights law.Erica L. Green contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett contributed research. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Civil Rights Agreement Settles Case At Texas Tech. 

Trump’s Proposed Budget Undermines His H.I.V. Plan, Experts Say - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexHealthSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperHealth|Trump’s Proposed Budget Undermines His H.I.V. Plan, Experts SayAdvertisementSupported byTrump’s Proposed Budget Undermines His H.I.V. Plan, Experts SayStrategies abound to end the AIDS epidemic, but expense — mostly for drugs costing up to $50,000 a year — is the inevitable obstacle.ImageA demonstration in San Diego against cuts to H.I.V. medication assistance programs in 2017. The high cost of antiretroviral drugs remains the biggest obstacle to eradicating AIDS.CreditCreditSandy Huffaker/Associated PressBy Donald G. McNeil Jr.March 12, 2019President Trump’s 2020 budget request of an extra $291 million to fight the spread of H.I.V., experts said on Tuesday, will not be remotely sufficient to meet the goal he announced in his State of the Union address: to nearly eliminate the AIDS epidemic in the United States within 10 years.Mr. Trump’s plan focuses on 48 counties where about half of new infections occur, and seeks to cut the rate of new infections by 90 percent — from about 40,000 a year to about 4,000. Virtually all H.I.V. experts agree that his plan is medically sound. People living with H.I.V. cannot transmit the virus if they are taking a daily triple-therapy drug cocktail. And a two-drug regimen, in a single daily pill known as PrEP, makes it almost impossible to get H.I.V., even through unprotected sex or needle use.But the plan requires a vast two-pronged attack. All Americans with H.I.V. must be found, put on antiretroviral drugs and kept on them for life; and all those at high risk of infection must be put on PrEP for as many years as they are sexually active or using drugs.The cost of doing that will be daunting. About 1.1 million Americans have the virus, and about one million are in danger of getting it. Finding, treating and keeping them all in treatment, experts estimated, could add another $25 billion a year to the $20 billion a year that the federal government, by its own estimates, already spends on H.I.V. prevention and treatment.Calculating the total price is complicated, because so many expenses are tucked into so many budgets. One government agency does vaccine research, another does public education, and many pay for medical care. Mr. Trump’s $291 million is discretionary spending; for example, it would help the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention do more testing and would assist local clinics in reaching more people at risk.But one way or another, the drugs must be paid for, and private insurers will not foot the whole bill. Many of those affected are uninsured or covered under Medicare, Medicaid, the Veterans Affairs department, the Indian Health Service, the Ryan White H.I.V./AIDS Program or other government programs.Mr. Trump’s budget request envisions giving the Ryan White program another $120 million next year — but simultaneously cutting Medicare and Medicaid by more than $2 trillion over 10 years. That’s why Mr. Trump’s attacks on Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act are “so problematic,” said Jeffrey S. Crowley, a director of the White House Office of National AIDS Policy during the Obama administration. Programs like those foot the biggest bills.Over the years, several administrations have announced plans to halt the spread of H.I.V. In 2001, the C.D.C. said it would cut new infections in half within five years. (The rate did not budge.) In 2010, President Obama laid out his strategy, updating it in 2015.The Obama administration did not estimate the strategy’s cost, Mr. Crowley said.But an analysis of it in 2017 by experts at Massachusetts General Hospital concluded that the effort would require an additional $120 billion over 20 years, and that new infections would be cut by only 40 percent during that time.By contrast, Mr. Trump’s plan envisions cutting infections by 90 percent in half that time, noted Dr. Rochelle P. Walensky, the lead author of the Mass General analysis. Mr. Trump’s plan would use PrEP to protect the uninfected, while Mr. Obama’s plan envisioned using only condoms.Because those medications are so expensive, Dr. Walensky estimated that the total additional cost of Mr. Trump’s plan could easily reach $250 billion over a decade.When antiretroviral triple therapy was adopted in 1996, it cost about $20,000 a year. Since then, the Food and Drug Administration has approved 30 antiretroviral drugs and a dozen one-pill combinations. But the price has only gone up. A typical treatment regimen is now as much as $50,000 a year. Truvada, the only pill now approved for H.I.V. prevention, is $20,000 a year.At those prices, the drug bill alone for 2.1 million people would be $75 billion a year.The next biggest item, Dr. Walensky said, would be laboratory testing. Finding most of the 1.1 million infected people in the American population of 325 million would require tens of millions of H.I.V. tests. They cost only $10 each, “but the manpower costs are not trivial,” she said. And various lab tests would cost about $325 per person per year. Doctor’s bills would also mount. Relatively healthy H.I.V. patients cost about $3,600 a year in medical expenses; sick patients needing hospitalization cost $40,000, on average.“Adherence” costs — paying case managers and counselors to track reluctant patients and keep them on their pills, which can even include personally escorting them to medical visits — add about $400 a year per patient.“That’s ballpark,” Dr. Walensky said. “It’s kind of a squirrelly figure.” A representative for the Department of Health and Human Services shown a summary of Dr. Walensky’s cost calculations declined to comment on it.Deep cuts in drug prices “would be a huge win in controlling the epidemic,” Dr. Walensky said, because those savings would cover the counseling, testing, doctor’s visits and other costs. The actual costs of making H.I.V. medications are far lower than their retail prices might suggest.Triple-therapy drug cocktails considered state-of-the-art here as recently as two years ago are now available as generics from India for as little as $72 a year. (American taxpayers buy at those prices for patients in Africa through the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.)Generic versions of Truvada are as little as $50.Even when the sky-high costs in the United States can be covered by one program or another, the paperwork baffles patients. Many, feeling overwhelmed, just drift off and never start on medication.“Every glitch is a chance for the health system to fail,” Mr. Crowley said.Only about a tenth of all Americans who should be on PrEP are on it. In a recent poll of gay men in California, 87 percent said they would take PrEP if it were free; almost 60 percent believed they could not afford it.Clinicians treating H.I.V. patients are frustrated.Dr. Leandro Mena, medical director of Open Arms Healthcare, a Mississippi clinic focused on reaching gay black men in the rural South, argued that “the U.S. should buy the license for PrEP and give it free to every person who needs it.”Legally, the government does not need to buy the license. By law, it can simply take patent licenses away, as it can driving or hunting licenses. Various federal statutes allow officials to do so in return for paying royalties or, sometimes, while paying nothing.That threat can be wielded to pressure a drug company to slash prices, said James P. Love, an expert on patients and director of Knowledge Ecology International, an advocacy group focusing on intellectual property.In 1917, the government exercised this authority against the Wright Brothers to force their company to lower the price of airplanes for the Army and Navy. Today, however, the federal government almost never uses that power. In 2001, during the anthrax scare that followed the World Trade Center attacks, Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, pressured Bayer A.G., which held the patent on Cipro, an antidote to inhaled anthrax, to sharply cut prices. Mr. Thompson threatened to seek congressional permission to import generic ciprofloxacin for the government stockpile. (Alex M. Azar II, the current secretary of health and human services, was the department’s general counsel at the time.)Additionally, government has “march-in rights” under the 1980 Bayh-Dole Act, Mr. Love said, because it paid for much of the original research on Truvada’s component drugs. Those rights allow officials to “march in” and reassign the patent to other manufacturers without compensation if the medicine is needed for government purposes. Behind the scenes, the pharmaceutical lobby is fighting to cancel march-in rights. At the lobby’s request, Mr. Love said, the National Institute of Standards and Technology has proposed limiting march-in rights only to “declared national emergencies” — which would not include using them just because the prices were too high.Donald G. McNeil Jr. is a science reporter covering epidemics and diseases of the world’s poor. He joined The Times in 1976, and has reported from 60 countries.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: Proposal to Fight H.I.V.,
But Without the Money
It Would Need to Work. 

How America Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Deficits and Debt - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperThe Upshot|How America Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Deficits and DebtAdvertisementUpshotSupported byHow America Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Deficits and DebtThe old rules are being rejected, among liberals and conservatives, politicians and economists.ImageCreditCreditNicolás OrtegaBy Neil IrwinFeb. 23, 2019 Here are three things that have happened so far in 2019.The former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard, argued in a speech that for countries like the United States, high public debt isn’t necessarily a problem. To people who follow the I.M.F., it was as if a former pope came out with an endorsement of the devil.Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the charismatic new congresswoman who has shown an uncanny ability to drive public policy debates, indicated openness to “modern monetary theory,” the idea that public spending need not be constrained by tax revenues.President Trump delivered an 82-minute-long State of the Union speech in which he did not use the words “debt” or “budget deficit.” Economic orthodoxy that ruled for decades held that fiscal responsibility was inherently good and the national debt a leviathan to fear. Now the intellectual and political currents are flowing — gushing, really — in the opposite direction.After President Trump’s election, Republicans decided to pursue their agenda of tax cuts and higher military spending without doing the unpopular work of paying for it.Democrats are coming to believe they have hamstrung themselves in pursuit of their goals by worrying about so-called pay-fors, policies that offset the cost. When they next take power, they may feel empowered to take on a much more ambitious, expensive agenda.And macroeconomists are confronting the reality that the sky did not fall, even as the United States swung from a $236 billion surplus in the 2000 fiscal year to a $779 billion deficit in 2018. By their old theories, high deficits and debt should have caused interest rates and inflation to rise, and government borrowing should have “crowded out” capital from the private sector.At a minimum, the old rules simply seem not to apply in a world that has free-flowing capital; an aging population; and stubbornly low inflation and interest rates. Or, more controversially, maybe those rules were never really an accurate description of how economics works in a country like the United States that can borrow in its own currency.How did everyone — liberals and conservatives, politicians and economists — get so comfortable with debt?The Clinton surpluses to Bush deficitsThe start of the 21st century was a triumphalist moment for the United States economy. The unemployment rate was at its lowest in decades, workers’ wages were rising, inflation was well contained and the stock market had reached staggering highs.The bipartisan conventional wisdom was that fiscal conservatism was a meaningful part of why: In the early 1990s, tax increases signed by George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton, combined with spending restraint, lowered projected deficits. That, in turn, generated lower interest rates. Global bond markets and the Federal Reserve rewarded fiscal restraint.Lower interest rates, in this telling, fueled an investment boom generating higher productivity — and all the good things about the turn-of-the-century economy. To those in charge, this story of cause-and-effect seemed almost self-evident. But even then, there were reasons to question it.For one thing, the cause-and-effect might have been backward. Maybe the economic boom caused the surpluses, not the other way around. And continuing fiscal surpluses meant a falling supply of Treasury bonds, the bedrock of the global financial system. Could that have been destabilizing? Some economists thought so, for example, Stephanie Kelton, who as a young scholar studied under the groundbreaking Cambridge economist Wynne Godley. In their thinking, the American combination of government budget surpluses and current account deficits — meaning importing more than exporting — would cause private debt to rise. And private debt, they said, is more dangerous than the public kind; private borrowers cannot create money from thin air. In 2001, the boom turned to recession. The Bush administration sought lower income tax rates, especially for investment income, and passed them in 2001 and 2003. In 2003, Congress and the administration created an expensive new Medicare prescription drug benefit. The country faced the new costs of wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The surpluses vanished. Interest rates and inflation remained low throughout the Bush years even as deficits soared, and rather than being crowded out by government borrowing, capital was freely available to private borrowers — so much so that it fueled a housing bubble.Then came the global financial crisis.The steep contraction in the economy in 2008 and the first half of 2009 caused tax revenues to plummet and social safety net spending to soar. The Obama administration advanced a deficit-financed $787 billion package of spending and tax cuts to contain the economic damage.But strikingly, even amid soaring deficits, President Obama embraced the language of the old Clinton-era consensus. “It has never been more important to ensure that as our economy recovers, we do what it takes to bring this deficit down,” he said in his first address to Congress in early 2009.When Republicans won control of the House of Representatives in 2010, in part by assailing the enormous Obama deficits, there was a bipartisan view that the United States was at risk of a fiscal crisis. The concern was that high debt would cause international investors to lose confidence in Treasury bonds and dump them, sending interest rates soaring and cratering the economy. The deficit did come down in the late Obama years, in part after Republicans insisted on budget cuts in so-called sequestration policies and the Obama administration insisted on allowing some of the Bush tax cuts to expire, raising taxes.When President Trump took office, Republicans in Congress initially discussed lowering corporate tax rates while keeping the government’s revenue stable with a “destination-based cash flow tax.”But the problem with a deficit-neutral tax change is that the losers, especially retailers in this case, tend to be more vocal than the winners. Congressional Republicans agreed on the deficit-widening parts of tax reform, cutting the corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent, reducing taxes on many “pass-through” businesses, and more. They couldn’t agree on offsetting moves to raise revenue.In October 2017, the Senate passed rules allowing a tax bill that raised the deficit by $1.5 trillion over 10 years. And just weeks after passing tax cuts, large bipartisan majorities in Congress voted on spending bills that increased federal outlays by about 13 percent.“It just didn’t seem like there was any way to get to deficit neutral or revenue neutral,” said former Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who ultimately voted for the tax cuts after voicing deficit concerns along the way. “Do I wish it was revenue neutral? Yes. Do I wish we had not turned around and voted for $2 trillion in spending that was unpaid for? Absolutely.”Mr. Corker says tax cuts are fulfilling their goal of making American businesses more competitive, though he said he still worried about Congress’s retreat from fiscal probity.“I was there for 12 years, and I think for eight or nine years of that time I felt Congress would deal with fiscal issues — I see no hope of that currently,” he said.Yet again, though, there has been scant evidence that this is doing the kind of damage to the economy that the old models predicted. The United States government can borrow money for 30 years for a smidgen over 3 percent. It was 6.5 percent back when surpluses reigned.Letting borrowers be borrowersLarry Summers was the last Treasury secretary to oversee a full year of fiscal surplus, in the final days of the Clinton administration. Last month, he and the economist Jason Furman published an article titled “Who’s Afraid of Budget Deficits: How Washington Should End Its Debt Obsession.”Focusing on limiting public debt, they argued, had hamstrung the nation’s ability to invest in things with long-term benefits, namely education, health care and infrastructure. “The basic idea that if you issue too much debt you will crowd out large amounts of valuable private capital investment was a reasonable view in the early to mid-1990s,” Mr. Summers, a Harvard economist, said in an interview. With very low interest rates worldwide, it isn’t today, he said.ImageLarry Summers at his confirmation hearing to be Treasury secretary in 1999.CreditDouglas Graham/Congressional Quarterly, via Getty ImagesMr. Summers and other non-alarmist economists are not suggesting that debt never matters.They say that in this environment — with low interest rates to the horizon, no evident inflation pressures, and with worthwhile policies that could enhance the nation’s long-term outlook — it’s foolish not to borrow money.Mr. Blanchard, the former I.M.F. chief economist, emphasizes that interest rates are comfortably below the rate at which the economy is growing. That means that, despite high debt levels in the United States, it shouldn’t matter if the nation keeps borrowing money because its capacity to pay is growing faster than interest costs.Some take the argument even further. Ms. Kelton, who went from her early research on debt to advise Senator Bernie Sanders and other politicians on the left, argues that a currency-issuing government needn’t worry that deficits will lead to a fiscal crisis. Rather, inflation becomes a risk if spending outpaces the finite supply of workers and productive capacity.The political implication of modern monetary theory is that you should lay out what you believe is an important priority for the country, and if you have the votes, enact it. Ms. Kelton said Presidents Trump and George W. Bush behaved as if they were M.M.T. adherents, and as a result had greater flexibility to enact their agenda than a more fiscally conservative president would.Even the members of Congress on the left aren’t ready to disregard fiscal constraints entirely. But they are focusing on the upside of their policies. When Senator Elizabeth Warren was asked if she believed in the modern monetary theory approach, she told Bloomberg Television: “It’s only when we talk about the things that go to hard-working Americans that Republicans seem to get religion about the national debt. Debt matters. There comes a point where debt matters. But what I care about is that we need to rethink our system in a way that is genuinely about investments that pay off over time.”Moreover, Ms. Warren has proposed a wealth tax on assets over $50 million. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has supported a 70 percent tax rate on income over $10 million. Moves like those would reduce the deficit impact of their spending proposals. But both speak of those strategies as desirable on their own terms, for fairness, rather than as necessary sacrifices to pay for aggressive climate change action or cheaper college access.It’s as if Democrats and Republicans were divorced parents who share custody — and elected Democrats feel that the Republicans are the parent constantly giving the children pizza and sweets, while the Democrats worry about healthy eating.“There’s a sense of ‘Why do we always have to be the fiscal grown-ups?’ ” said Jared Bernstein, who worked in the Obama administration and is now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. “It puts your party at a disadvantage if we’re the ones saying you have to eat your spinach all the time.”The hawks’ warning Republicans may cut taxes with abandon, and Democrats seem increasingly ready to undertake their agenda with similar disregard to fiscal consequences. But there remains a politically homeless group: people who see profound risks in the bipartisan willingness to embrace deficit spending.In 2011, Erskine Bowles, who was co-chairman of a committee aimed at long-term deficit reduction, predicted that a fiscal crisis could arrive in two years. That didn’t happen. But Mr. Bowles believes that in the generation to come, there will be regrets over the current era of large deficits even in a time of economic strength: “I’m confident many Americans will wonder why didn’t those old guys make some of these tough decisions 20 to 30 years ago.”Neil Irwin is a senior economics correspondent for The Upshot. He previously wrote for The Washington Post and is the author of “The Alchemists: Three Central Bankers and a World on Fire.”
@Neil_Irwin • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR3 of the New York edition with the headline: How America Learned to Love Deficits. 

2020 Democrats Embrace Race-Conscious Policies, Including Reparations - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsLog InSubscribeLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|2020 Democrats Embrace Race-Conscious Policies, Including ReparationsAdvertisementSupported by2020 Democrats Embrace Race-Conscious Policies, Including ReparationsImageSenator Kamala Harris at Sylvia’s restaurant in Harlem on Thursday. Some Democratic presidential candidates, including Ms. Harris, have expressed support for overtly race-conscious legislation.CreditCreditKholood Eid for The New York TimesBy Astead W. HerndonFeb. 21, 2019From the very first day of the 2020 presidential race, when Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts blamed “generations of discrimination” for black families earning far less than white households, Democratic hopefuls have broadly emphasized racial justice and closing the wealth gap in their policy platforms.But in recent weeks, some candidates have started embracing specific goals and overtly race-conscious legislation that even the most left-wing elected officials stayed away from in recent years.Last week, on the popular radio show “The Breakfast Club,” Senator Kamala Harris of California agreed with a host’s suggestion that government reparations for black Americans were necessary to address the legacies of slavery and discrimination. Ms. Harris later affirmed that support in a statement to The New York Times.“We have to be honest that people in this country do not start from the same place or have access to the same opportunities,” she said. “I’m serious about taking an approach that would change policies and structures and make real investments in black communities.”Ms. Warren also said she supported reparations for black Americans impacted by slavery — a policy that experts say could cost several trillion dollars, and one that Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders and many top Democrats have not supported.The Warren campaign declined to give further details on that backing, but it came amid her calls for the federal government to provide special home-buying assistance to residents of communities that were adversely affected by “redlining,” the discriminatory practice of denying mortgages, usually in poor and nonwhite areas. She also announced a sweeping universal child-care proposal that could strongly benefit minority communities that often have limited early childhood services.The morally driven policy goals of Ms. Harris and Ms. Warren reflect a broader shift in the importance of race and identity issues in the Democratic Party, according to several scholars and political leaders who focus on the intersection of race and politics. While Democrats have long cast themselves as more inclusive than the Republican Party, grass-roots organizers and many liberal voters of all races are now pushing elected officials to go further on policies of racial equality, regardless of any political calculations.ImageSenator Elizabeth Warren spoke in Las Vegas on Sunday. Ms. Warren said that she also supported reparations for black Americans impacted by slavery.CreditBridget Bennett for The New York TimesBut race-conscious policies could emerge as a fissure in a wide-open Democratic primary, as some moderate candidates seek to run against the party’s recent leftward lurch. There are also political risks for the general election: Republicans have long attempted to paint Democrats who embrace policies that address racial inequalities as anti-white, and polling often shows reparations for black Americans remains an unpopular policy across the country.That two leading Democratic candidates have embraced reparations — the concept that the federal government should both acknowledge the ongoing legacy of slavery and discrimination and provide compensatory payment to those affected — is a major shift from past presidential campaigns and a win for activists who have tried to push the issue into the mainstream for decades. Julián Castro, the former cabinet secretary who is also running for president, has also indicated that he would support reparations.Even among the 2020 Democrats who stopped short of endorsing reparations, several have laid out robust policies aimed at closing the gap in wealth between black and white families. Scholars estimate that black families in America today earn just $57.30 for every $100 in income earned by white families, according to the Census Bureau’s Current Population Survey. For every $100 in white family wealth, black families hold just $5.04.Senator Cory Booker’s “baby bonds” policy aims to help poorer children by giving them a government-funded savings account that could total up to $50,000 for the lowest income brackets. The plan has been praised by liberal scholars, who think it could go a long way in helping lower-income Americans begin to build wealth. And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand has endorsed a proposal to allow Americans without checking accounts to bank at the local post office; a disproportionate percentage of America’s unbanked population are people of color.María Urbina, national policy director for the progressive group Indivisible, said that after years of being pushed by activists, the Democratic Party was getting closer to applying its liberal values to racial equality. Policies like reparations or “baby bonds” that seek to close the racial wealth gap, she said, should be viewed similarly to idealistic programs that have been embraced by Democrats seeking the presidential nomination, including the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all.”“We want folks who are being ambitious, not just working within the margins and the contours of what we had before, but sort of reimagining things on our own terms and being really aspirational,” Ms. Urbina said.Sandy Darity, a Duke University professor who is a leading scholar on reparations and the racial wealth gap, said he believes more black Americans may come to see reparations as a defining issue for their support.“There is a point in black Americans making a collective decision to treat a candidate’s attitude toward reparations as a litmus test for supporting them,” Dr. Darity said. “I think if folks had paid closer attention to the fact that Barack Obama was against reparations, they would have not been as disappointed by his presidency, because they would have had more realistic expectations about what he was likely to do.”Among Democrats, the idea of reparations has been unpopular until very recently. For more than two decades, Representative John Conyers, the Detroit Democratic stalwart who resigned in December 2017, repeatedly introduced a reparations bill to Congress that received little support from either party.Mr. Sanders, the Vermont leftist whose rhetoric of a political revolution won him throngs of supporters in the last Democratic primary and disrupted the party establishment, dismissed the idea of reparations as politically unpalatable in January 2016, upsetting some racial justice activists who found his answer hypocritical. Mrs. Clinton, who beat Mr. Sanders for the 2016 nomination, also declined to support reparations.Mr. Obama, the country’s first black president, was seen in some political quarters as reticent about prioritizing the interests of black voters, and he called the idea of reparations impractical in 2016.“I’m not so optimistic as to think that you would ever be able to garner a majority of an American Congress that would make those kinds of investments, above and beyond the kinds of investments that could be made in a progressive program for lifting up all people,” Mr. Obama said.As Ms. Warren and Ms. Harris seek to lead the party into a new era, their support for the policy — which did not come with specifics — signals just how quickly prominent Democrats have expanded their political imagination after decades of dominance by the Clintons and Mr. Obama.Ms. Warren, in particular, has attempted to stake out more aggressive policies to push other Democrats in the race. Her proposal for universal child care would make the service free to any family earning up to double the federal poverty level, and would increase wages for child care workers — two initiatives that could particularly affect black and Latino communities, where informal child-care arrangements are more common.“We must confront the dark history of slavery and government-sanctioned discrimination in this country that has had many consequences, including undermining the ability of black families to build wealth in America for generations,” Ms. Warren told The Times. “We need systemic, structural changes to address that.”Another sign of the party’s shift on race: Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the New York Democrat whose bold policy ideas and devoted national following have upended Capitol Hill, also voiced her support for reparations earlier this month.“Until America tells the truth about itself, we’re not going to heal,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said at a forum with Ta-Nehisi Coates, the writer whose landmark 2014 article, “The Case For Reparations,” helped thrust the issue back into American consciousness.ImageSenator Cory Booker in Rochester, N.H., on Sunday. Mr. Booker’s so-called “baby bonds” policy aims to help poorer children by giving them a government-funded savings account.CreditElizabeth Frantz for The New York TimesOther Democratic 2020 candidates — including Mr. Booker, Ms. Gillibrand and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota — either did not respond to requests for comment or stopped short of an endorsement of reparations. Instead, several laid out policies that, though not intended as a redress for slavery, would benefit black Americans.Mr. Booker “is running for president to reignite our sense of common purpose to build a more fair and just nation — that means enacting policies that atone for this nation’s history of intentionally discriminatory public policy toward African-Americans,” said Michael Tyler, a spokesman for his campaign. “You cannot address the systemic racism unique to this country without proposing race-conscious solutions.”Darrick Hamilton, a professor at Ohio State University who has worked with Dr. Darity on research regarding inequality, said Mr. Booker’s “baby bonds” plan could substantially transform wealth building measures for poor Americans and minorities and could help minorities grow assets.Dr. Hamilton and Dr. Darity both panned Ms. Harris’s signature economic proposals, which would dramatically expand a tax credit for middle-class families and provide rent relief to those struggling to afford rising home costs. Both proposals are “income-based,” the professors said, and would do little to stem wealth inequality between races.Only one 2020 candidate has laid out a reparations plan with specifics: Marianne Williamson, the best-selling author and self-described “spiritual teacher.” Since the start of her long-shot campaign, Ms. Williamson has called for $100 billion in reparations for black Americans — far more than any other Democrat, but substantially less than what scholars have said would be necessary.“Paltry,” Dr. Darity said of Ms. Williamson’s plan.Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.
@AsteadWesley A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: For Democrats in 2020, Race-Conscious Policies
Could Become a Divide. 

Trump Administration to Push for Tougher Asylum Rules - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Trump Administration to Push for Tougher Asylum RulesAdvertisementSupported byTrump Administration to Push for Tougher Asylum RulesImagePresident Trump defended his administration’s immigration policies on Tuesday in the Oval Office.CreditCreditTom Brenner for The New York TimesBy Michael D. Shear and Zolan Kanno-YoungsApril 9, 2019WASHINGTON — The Trump administration plans to aggressively push for tougher screening of asylum seekers that will make it vastly more difficult for migrants fleeing persecution in their home countries to win protection in the United States, a senior administration official told reporters on Tuesday.The official said that President Trump ordered a shake-up of his top immigration officials in recent days because they were moving too slowly, or even actively obstructing, the president’s desire to confront the surge of migrants at the southwestern border. The asylum changes are among many policies the president wants to put into effect with a new team in place, the official said.Mr. Trump denied on Tuesday that one of those changes would be to restart his policy of separating migrant families at the border, though he said that the act of taking children from their parents — which drew global condemnation before he abandoned it last summer — was effective.“Now I’ll tell you something, once you don’t have it, that’s why you see many more people coming,” Mr. Trump said. “They are coming like it’s a picnic, because, ‘Let’s go to Disneyland.’”The administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity even as Mr. Trump was making his remarks, said a modified version of family separation, in which parents are given a choice of whether to be separated or to accept indefinite detention alongside their children, continues to be under consideration.But the so-called binary choice proposal is “not ripe for White House consideration” right now, he insisted, because the government does not currently have the detention space to hold families if the policy were put in place.The asylum changes being envisioned could drastically alter the role that the United States plays as a refuge for people fleeing poverty, violence and war. American and international laws require it to allow migrants to request asylum once they come to the country.But the official said that an initial assessment of the basis for a request for asylum — known as a “credible fear” screening — too often accepts the claim that the migrant was persecuted. The official also said that many more asylum seekers should be rejected during that first step.Out of 97,728 completed interviews with migrants in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, 2018, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services confirmed a credible fear of persecution 74,677 times, according to an agency official.Changes in the screening process could drastically lower those findings by requiring more proof from asylum seekers that they would be persecuted in their home countries. Screeners could also try to verify migrant claims by using State Department assessments of the threats that exist in those countries.Immigrant rights advocates have feared for months that the administration would try to change the standards by which asylum seekers are judged in an effort to prevent more of them from coming into the United States.The administration official blamed the delay in that effort on “deep state” bureaucrats at the Department of Homeland Security and even the president’s own political appointees in the department, whom the official described as lacking the management skills to push Mr. Trump’s agenda.The official declined to name specific administration officials who have failed. But he made thinly veiled references to two top officials at the Department of Homeland Security: John Mitnick, the department’s general counsel, and L. Francis Cissna, the head of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.He said there was “clearly a track record” in which the president’s policies have not been advanced.In his remarks on Tuesday, Mr. Trump falsely said that President Barack Obama had embraced the same policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border.“President Obama had child separation,” Mr. Trump said during brief remarks in the Oval Office, where he was meeting with President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt. “I’m the one that stopped it.”Under Mr. Obama and President George W. Bush, immigration officials sometimes separated families when they had reason to question parentage or when there was evidence of child abuse. The Trump administration instituted a policy in which all families who crossed the border illegally were separated in order to allow the parents to be prosecuted under the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy. More than 2,700 children were separated from their parents at the border before Mr. Trump ended the policy in June 2018.[Fact check: Family separation at the border]The president’s comments come after he shook up the senior ranks of the Department of Homeland Security, forcing the resignation of the secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, and top immigration officials in a move that signaled a pending shift in immigration policies.Also on Tuesday, the acting deputy secretary of homeland security, Claire Grady, who was next in line by law to become the acting secretary, submitted her resignation, according to a Twitter post by Ms. Nielsen. Ms. Grady’s resignation paves the way for Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, to take the role.Customs and Border Protection officials this week underscored Mr. Trump’s concern about illegal immigration by announcing that more than 103,000 migrants crossed the southwestern border in March without authorization, an increase from the more than 76,000 migrants who crossed in February.“Just last month, we saw record numbers of family units and unaccompanied juvenile apprehensions in February, and unfortunately, March apprehension numbers are again record-setting and cause dire concerns for us,” said Brian Hastings, the chief of law enforcement operations for the Border Patrol.Most of the migrants — 92,000 of the 103,000 — were apprehended by Border Patrol agents, meaning they crossed in between the ports of entry.More than 53,000 of those migrants were members of a family, Mr. Hastings said, and most of those families were from Honduras, Guatemala or El Salvador.In the first half of fiscal year 2019, Border Patrol agents apprehended more than 385,000 migrants on the border, more than double those apprehended during the same time last year.Mr. Hastings said the Border Patrol can generally maintain 4,500 people in its custody. But it recently counted 13,000 migrants in its facilities, and he said the overflow has led to the release of families into cities along the border.“Backups have resulted in individuals spending additional time in Border Patrol custody in increasingly crowded conditions,” Mr. Hastings said.On Tuesday, White House officials announced that the president would appeal a judge’s ruling that blocked the administration’s “Migrant Protection Protocols,” which require some asylum seekers to remain in Mexico while they wait for their court cases.Mr. Trump has recently commended Mexico for doing more to stem migration to the border, but the officials said they have not seen any effect on the number of people crossing it. “The numbers aren’t declining; in fact, we’re still seeing 3,000 apprehensions per day,” Mr. Hastings said.Officials also revealed that among the tens of thousands of family members approaching the border each month, just 3,100 people who said they were traveling with relatives were found to have a fraudulent claim. Those people either said they had a child when the individual was over 18 or the group’s members were not really related.Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Administration to Push for Tougher Rules on Asylum. 

Samantha Marpe, Kristofer Sandor - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexWeddingsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperWeddings|Samantha Marpe, Kristofer SandorAdvertisementSupported bySamantha Marpe, Kristofer SandorImageCreditCreditCarly Fuller PhotographyApril 7, 2019Samantha Nicole Marpe and Kristofer Andy Sandor were married April 6 at the United States Naval Academy Chapel in Annapolis, Md. The Rev. Eric Hoog, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, 34, is a recruiter with Henkel Search Partners, a company in New York that specializes in recruiting investment professionals for private equity firms. She graduated from Penn State.She is the daughter of Mary Ellen Marpe and James S. Marpe of Westport, Conn. The bride’s father is the first selectman of Westport and a retired senior partner of Accenture, a global management and technology consulting company in New York. Her mother serves on the board of trustees of the Westport Country Playhouse.The groom, 40, was until December 2018, the general manager of Citi Bike, a bike share company based in New York. He previously served nine years on active duty in the Navy as a nuclear submarine officer, having achieved the rank of lieutenant, and was last stationed at the Office of the Secretary of Defense in Washington. He also served as a White House social aide in the Bush and Obama administrations before entering the private sector. He graduated from the Naval Academy and received an M.B.A. from Stanford.He is a son of Maria Sandor and Istvan Sandor of Lake Worth, Fla. The groom’s father, who worked in Boonton, N.J., retired as the president and founder of the Bio-Chem Valve Corporation, a manufacturer of high-quality fluidic components used in clinical diagnostics and analytical chemistry. His mother was a stay-at-home parent.The couple met in November 2016 through the online dating app the League. Their first date was at a wine bar that same month in New York’s West Village.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST12 of the New York edition with the headline: Samantha Marpe,
Kristofer Sandor. 

Opinion | Democrats: Pick a Governor, Not a Senator, for 2020 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Democrats: Pick a Governor, Not a Senator, for 2020AdvertisementOpinionSupported byletterDemocrats: Pick a Governor, Not a Senator, for 2020A reader analyzes past elections and finds that “no sitting senator has ever beaten an incumbent president” while several governors have. March 13, 2019Image CreditCreditAl Drago for The New York TimesTo the Editor:Thankfully some governors (John Hickenlooper, Jay Inslee) have entered the race for the Democratic nomination for president. Up to now many of the announced presidential hopefuls have been senators, even though no sitting senator has ever beaten an incumbent president running for re-election. In fact, only three sitting senators have ever been elected president: Harding, Kennedy and Obama.There have been five elections in which a sitting senator challenged an incumbent president: Clay, 1832; Goldwater, 1964; McGovern, 1972; Dole, 1996; and Kerry, 2004. None were successful, and two were beaten by some of the largest margins in history. However, five presidents have lost their re-election bids since 1900, and all lost to governors or former governors: Taft to Wilson; Hoover to Roosevelt; Ford to Carter; Carter to Reagan; and Bush to Clinton.Of the four presidents before Donald Trump who lost the popular vote but won the Electoral College, only one was subsequently re-elected. That was George W. Bush, and he ran against a senator.Please, Democrats, take back the White House. Avoid nominating a sitting senator as your candidate and find a governor with the characteristics of the two most recent successful challengers of Republican incumbents, Carter and Clinton. If Democrats ignore history, it will be at their, and the country’s, peril.Doug Campos-OutcaltPhoenixA version of this article appears in print on , on Page A30 of the New York edition with the headline: Democrats: Pick a Governor, Not a Senator. 

Opinion | Is the Green New Deal a Good Deal? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Is the Green New Deal a Good Deal?AdvertisementOpinionSupported bylettersIs the Green New Deal a Good Deal?Readers respond to columns by Bret Stephens, David Brooks and Ross Douthat.Feb. 20, 2019ImagePolice arrested protesters outside of Representative Nancy Pelosi’s office on Capitol Hill in November.CreditCreditShawn Thew/EPA, via ShutterstockTo the Editor:Re “Is Nancy Pelosi a Climate Skeptic?” (column, Feb. 16):Bret Stephens presents us with a fake binary choice. Either we gear up to fight climate change as if it were an alien invasion, placing capitalism in jeopardy, or we treat it as a “real but manageable problem” like global poverty, worthy of patient resolution. He urges us to make our peace with patient resolution.The Green New Deal’s authors are doing us a favor by refusing to sugarcoat the need for fundamental change in the way we run our lives and fuel our economy. President Trump’s defiant embrace of fossil fuels is an insult to common sense and global decency, but even President Barack Obama’s policy reforms left gas-guzzling cars on our roads, leaky homes throughout our towns and cities, and industries with their energy-wasteful operations unchecked. We have lost too much time pretending that climate change can be dealt with gradually, if at all. The Green New Deal rightly demands that we rise to the urgency of this challenge.Philip WarburgNewton, Mass. The writer is a nonresident senior fellow at Boston University’s Institute for Sustainable Energy.To the Editor:Re “How the Left Embraced Elitism,” by David Brooks (column, Feb. 12):To suggest that a Green New Deal will evolve into a colossal government-owned enterprise controlling most aspects of our economy and run by bureaucrats housed in Pentagon-size offices is reactionary. This doesn’t even happen in China anymore. A Green New Deal will be enabled by the government just as it has enabled every modern high-tech industry today: by funding (military technology, the space program), by direct purchases (supercomputers, semiconductors), by market subsidies (wind power, solar power, electric vehicles), by technology transfer out of government labs and programs (the internet, genomics, satellites), and the list goes on. The government doesn’t build things; private industries do, and they reap the commercial benefit. There are thousands of start-up companies commercializing technologies in which the underlying research and development have been funded by the government, and there could be thousands more engaged in a Green New Deal if the government undertakes it. John FairbornNewport Beach, Calif.To the Editor:Re “One Cheer for the Green New Deal” (column, Feb. 10):Before Ross Douthat dismisses carbon taxes as falling “heavily on the working class,” he should study the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act just introduced in Congress, to almost no fanfare. It will reduce emissions more than the Paris agreement or President Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan; it requires no big government spending; and it already has generated bipartisan support.The critical difference between this legislation and other carbon tax proposals is that all fees collected would be returned directly to American households each month. Most of the working class will actually come out ahead if this legislation passes. It’s a Green New Deal right under our noses!Laura SchumacherSan DiegoTo the Editor:Ross Douthat’s patronizing take on the ambitions of the Green New Deal misses the most critical point: Scientists agree that humanity has a very short window in which to transform our systems of generating and using energy. The alternative is stronger, more frequent hurricanes, droughts, floods, famines and wildfires, costing lives and livelihoods on a global scale.If this doesn’t call for great ambition, what does?Sarah RichardsonNew YorkA version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Is the Green New Deal a Good Deal?. 

Opinion | Democrats, Debt and Double Standards - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Democrats, Debt and Double StandardsAdvertisementOpinionSupported byDemocrats, Debt and Double StandardsDon’t let the deficit scolds scare you into thinking small.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistFeb. 11, 2019ImageDeficit scolds were mute in 2017 when the Democratic congressional leaders Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi fought the Republican tax cuts. CreditCreditTom Brenner/The New York TimesMuch of Donald Trump’s State of the Union address was devoted to describing the menaces he claims face America — mainly the menace of scary brown people, but also the menace of socialism. And there has been a lot of discussion in the news media of what he said on those topics.There has, however, been little coverage of one of the most revealing aspects of the SOTU: what Trump said about the menace of America’s historically large government debt.But wait, you may object — he didn’t say anything about debt. Indeed he didn’t — not one word. But that’s what was so revealing.After all, Republicans spent the entire Obama administration inveighing constantly about the dangers of debt, warning that America faced a looming crisis unless deficits were drastically reduced. Now that they’re in power, however — and with the deficit surging thanks to a huge tax cut for corporations and the rich — they’ve totally dropped the subject.According to ABC News, Mick Mulvaney, Trump’s acting chief of staff, explained to G.O.P. members of Congress why debt wouldn’t get a single mention in the SOTU: “Nobody cares.”And you know, he’s kind of right. It’s not just Republicans who suddenly seemed to stop caring about debt. For years deficit scolds dominated discourse inside the Beltway; much of the news media treated the urgency of fiscal austerity as an unquestioned fact, abandoning the usual rules of reportorial neutrality and plunging into outright advocacy. Yet since Trump’s election those voices have become oddly muted.What we’ve just seen confirmed, then, is what some of us were trying to tell you from the beginning: All that wailing about debt was hypocritical. Republicans never actually cared about debt; they just pretended to be deficit hawks as a way to hamstring President Barack Obama’s agenda. And many centrists have turned out to have a double standard, reserving passionate concern about debt for times when Democrats hold power.But while the about-face on debt has, as I said, been deeply revealing, there are still two big questions. First, how much should we care about debt? Second, will a double standard continue to prevail? That is, will the deficit scolds suddenly get vocal again if and when Democrats regain power?On the first question: One surprising thing about the debt obsession that peaked around 2011 is that it never had much basis in economic analysis. On the contrary, everything we know about fiscal policy says that it’s a mistake to focus on deficit reduction when unemployment is high and interest rates are low, as they were when the fiscal scolds were at their loudest.The case for worrying about debt is stronger now, given low unemployment. But interest rates are still very low by historical standards — less than 1 percent after adjusting for inflation. This is so low that we needn’t fear that debt will snowball, with interest payments blowing up the deficit. It also suggests that we’re suffering from chronic weakness in private investment demand (which, by the way, the 2017 tax cut doesn’t seem to have boosted at all).So in the past few months a number of prominent economists — including the former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund and top economists from the Obama administration — have published analyses saying that even now, with unemployment quite low, debt is much less of a problem than previously thought.It’s still a bad idea to run up debt for no good reason — say, to provide tax breaks that corporations just use to buy back their own stock, which is, of course, what the G.O.P. did. But borrowing at ultralow interest rates to pay for investments in the future — infrastructure, of course, but also things like nutrition and health care for the young, who are the workers of tomorrow — is very defensible.Which brings us to the question of double standards.You don’t have to agree with everything in proposals for a “Green New Deal” to acknowledge that it’s very much an investment program, not a mere giveaway. So it has been very dismaying to see how much commentary on these proposals either demands an immediate, detailed explanation of how Democrats would pay for their ideas, or dismisses the whole thing as impractical. Was there the same pushback against Republican tax cuts? No.Look, we’ve seen this over and over again — three times since 1980. Republicans rail against budget deficits when they’re out of power, then drop all their concerns and send the deficit soaring once they are in a position to cut taxes. Then when it’s the Democrats’ turn, they’re expected to clean up the Republicans’ red ink rather than address their own priorities. Enough already.I’m not saying that Democrats should completely ignore the fiscal implications of their actions. Really big spending plans, especially if they don’t clearly involve investment — for example, a major expansion of federal health spending — will have to be paid for with new taxes. But if and when Democrats are in a position to make policy, they should be ambitious, and not let the deficit scolds scare them into thinking small.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.
@PaulKrugman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: Democrats Versus the Deficit Scolds. 

Sara Rhodin, Tyler Lechtenberg - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexWeddingsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperWeddings|Sara Rhodin, Tyler LechtenbergAdvertisementSupported bySara Rhodin, Tyler LechtenbergImageMarch 17, 2019Sara Sean Rhodin and Tyler Andrew Lechtenberg were married March 16 in a self-uniting Quaker service at the Arch Street Quaker Meeting House in Philadelphia. Sarada Peri, a friend of the couple, led the ceremony.Ms. Rhodin, 35, is a history teacher at Madeira School, an all-girls private school in McLean, Va. She graduated summa cum laude from George Washington University and received a master’s degree from Harvard in regional studies encompassing Russia, East Europe and Central Asia. She was a Fulbright scholar in Estonia from 2006-7.The bride is a daughter of Cynthia C. Rhodin and William K. Rhodin of Newtown, Pa. Her father is a senior consultant in King of Prussia, Pa., at Walker Consultants, a parking design and consulting firm that consults to the parking garage industry. Her mother is a retail saleswoman at Newtown Book and Record Exchange, an independent book and record store.Mr. Lechtenberg, 37, is the managing principal of Fenway Strategies, a speech-writing and communications firm in Washington. He previously worked on Barack Obama’s presidential campaign, starting as a field organizer for the 2008 Iowa caucuses and rising to senior presidential speechwriter during his two terms in the White House. The groom graduated from the University of Iowa.The groom is a son of Deborah D. Lechtenberg and James J. Lechtenberg of Dundee, Iowa. His father is a corn and soybean farmer in Dundee. His mother is the retired postmaster of Lamont, Iowa.The couple met in April 2017 at a restaurant in Washington.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: Sara Rhodin,
Tyler Lechtenberg. 

Why Texas Is Nearing Battleground Status (It’s Not Just About Beto) - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperThe Upshot|Why Texas Is Nearing Battleground Status (It’s Not Just About Beto)AdvertisementUpshotSupported byWhy Texas Is Nearing Battleground Status (It’s Not Just About Beto)Hispanics represent the (elusive) upside for Democrats, but it’s a shift in white voters that is making the biggest difference.By Nate CohnMarch 14, 2019ImageBeto O’Rourke at a rally in Austin in October 2018. He won a lot of voters who had voted for Republicans and for minor-party candidates.CreditJay Janner/Austin American-Statesman, via Associated PressThe dream of a “Blue Texas” has captured the imagination of Democrats for nearly a decade, and Beto O’Rourke has come closer than anyone to making a statewide victory a reality.His strengths as a candidate in his narrow loss in a 2018 Senate race against Ted Cruz — by 2.6 percentage points — led his supporters to push him to run for president, and he obliged them Thursday morning. But his performance may have demonstrated something else: Texas is on the doorstep of emerging as a battleground state, and any number of Democrats might stand a chance to compete there in 2020 for the presidency or the Senate.His relatively close loss is promising for the party because he did not take full advantage of the longer-term trends that might put it over the top sooner than later. His strength came almost exclusively from white voters, not from the growing Hispanic population in the state. None of this is to take away from his accomplishment. He did better than every Democrat running statewide in Texas in the 2018 midterms. It seems unlikely that many Democrats would have fared as well as he did, and you could argue it bodes well for his chances in a presidential race. But on balance his success was a reflection of deeper trends. Mr. O’Rourke’s close result wasn’t because of an exceptional turnout that will be hard for other Democrats to repeat in 2020. Republican voters, defined as those who have participated in a recent Republican primary, turned out at a higher rate than Democratic ones. Neither the Hispanic nor youth voter share of the electorate was higher than it was in 2016, when President Trump won the state by nine points. On the contrary, Democrats in 2020 can be expected to enjoy a more favorable turnout because presidential races tend to draw in more young and Hispanic voters. Mr. O’Rourke might have won Texas last November if turnout had been at the level of a contested presidential race, based on an Upshot analysis of Times/Siena poll responses, actual results and voter file data from L2, a nonpartisan voter file vendor. The data yields an estimate of how every registered voter in Texas would have voted, based on a long list of geographic and demographic factors that predicted vote choice in the Times/Siena polling. Importantly, turnout in 2018 is among those factors, which allows us to fully untangle how much of Mr. O’Rourke’s strength was because of strong turnout among his supporters.The data indicates that two opposing turnout trends influenced the results. The electorate was older, whiter and more Republican than the state as a whole — or than the 2016 electorate. But an O’Rourke supporter was generally likelier to vote than a demographically and politically similar supporter of Mr. Cruz. This was the pattern nationwide, so it is not obvious that this can be attributed to Mr. O’Rourke specifically; it could have been the favorable Democratic environment more generally. Either way, the extra turnout boost probably cut Mr. Cruz’s margin of victory by two points. Mr. O’Rourke might have won with a turnout of around 10 million voters. (The actual turnout was around 8.4 million.) Without the extra edge of a Democratic wave year, it might have taken 11 million votes, a number that is not out of the question in 2020 if Texas is contested as a battleground state.So how did Mr. O’Rourke fare so well? He did it through old-fashioned persuasion, by winning voters who had voted for Republicans and for minor-party candidates.The results themselves make it clear that he won a lot of voters who supported Republicans in other races. He ran three points ahead of the overall Democratic state vote for the U.S. House in 2018 (adjusted for uncontested races), and ahead of every down-ballot Democrat running statewide. Mr. O’Rourke’s personal appeal was probably a factor, and there’s no guarantee a different Democrat can replicate it. His strong favorability rating (plus-10 in the exit polls, 52 percent to 42 percent) is consistent with that possibility, though he might have also had the benefit of a relatively unpopular incumbent in Mr. Cruz. Only 50 percent of voters had a favorable impression of Mr. Cruz in the exit polls (48 percent had an unfavorable one). But Mr. O’Rourke’s personal appeal is not the whole story. After all, many Democrats running for the U.S. House or other statewide offices posted noteworthy performances. The tide lifting all Democratic boats in Texas was an anti-Trump rebellion. Over all, President Trump’s approval rating was at 49 percent in the exit poll and 50 percent in the large AP/Fox Votecast poll. This is consistent with a variety of other survey data, including a recent Quinnipiac poll that put the president’s approval rating at minus-3 among registered voters in the state, 47-50. Gallup, measuring the much more diverse pool of Texan adults, put the president’s approval rating at just 41 percent in 2018.It is notable that Mr. O’Rourke, with 48.3 percent of the vote, fell a bit short of the disapproval number of the president. That could reflect that he was facing a well-known incumbent, which offers on average a meaningful benefit to the officeholder (despite Mr. Cruz’s relative unpopularity). It could also reflect the state’s G.O.P. tradition; some number of Republicans may disapprove of Trump but not be ready to vote for a Democrat.No matter how you explain it, the president’s disapproval rating in Texas would seem to imply that there’s at least some additional upside for Democrats there, beyond what Mr. O’Rourke pulled off. And the president’s far lower approval rating among all adults (as opposed to among registered voters) hints at another opportunity for Democrats: mobilizing unregistered voters. In both cases, Hispanic voters could represent the upside for Democrats. Mr. O’Rourke’s strong showing had essentially nothing to do with the initial vision of a Blue Texas powered by mobilizing the state’s growing Hispanic population. The Texas electorate was only two points more Hispanic in 2018 than it was in 2012, but President Obama lost the state by 16 points in 2012, compared with Mr. O’Rourke’s 2.6-point loss. At the same time, Mr. O’Rourke fared worse than Mr. Obama or Hillary Clinton in many of the state’s heavily Hispanic areas, particularly in more conservative South Texas. This could reflect Mr. Cruz’s relative strength among Hispanic voters compared with a typical Republican. Instead, Mr. O’Rourke’s improvement came almost exclusively from white voters, and particularly college-educated white voters. Whites probably gave him around 33 percent of their votes, up from a mere 22 percent for Mr. Obama in 2012.Where Beto O’Rourke Stands on the IssuesMarch 14, 2019There’s clearly additional upside for Democrats if they could pair their recent gains among white voters with improvement among Hispanic voters (through some combination of persuasion, higher turnout among registrants and newly registered voters). Can Democrats really turn out Hispanic voters in huge numbers in Texas? There are real barriers, and you wouldn’t expect Hispanic Democrats to turn out in particularly high numbers given their low turnout elsewhere in the country. It is far-fetched to suggest Hispanic mobilization will fundamentally transform the electorate and turn Texas into a blueish state anytime soon. But a more modest increase in turnout or support among Hispanic voters is fairly likely if Texas sees the campaign dollars and attention that come with a contested state in a presidential year. When Mr. Obama contested Virginia, North Carolina and Colorado in 2008, the turnout there increased by an average of 13 percent to 23 percent over 2004 levels, which included a mix of higher turnout among registrants and thousands of newly registered voters. Given the extraordinary turnout in the 2018 midterm election nationwide, it is plausible that turnout will be up substantially in Texas regardless of whether the state is a battleground.Can Polls Be Predictive This Early? Yes, if Old Rules Still ApplyMarch 13, 2019Is Texas a true battleground state? Mr. O’Rourke and House Democrats fared much worse in Texas than in clear battleground states like Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan. They also fared worse than in the next tier of Sun Belt battlegrounds, like Florida, Georgia, Arizona and North Carolina. And Texas is substantially more expensive to compete in than any of those states, save Florida.But if you squint at the midterm results, it is not obvious that Texas will be so far to the right of those Sun Belt battlegrounds. The president’s approval rating in the two election surveys was basically the same in Texas as in Florida, Georgia and Arizona (there were no surveys in North Carolina, where there was no statewide contest). Democrats in Texas, including Mr. O’Rourke, fared worse in the major statewide contests, but it was also the only state where the Democrats all faced incumbents in such contests. It is also the state where the Democrats have the most obvious upside in terms of the mobilization of additional voters; the pace of demographic shifts; and the trend toward Democrats in the Trump era. Put it together, and Texas is on the cusp of being a true (if Republican-tilting) battleground state. It might not be immediately and vigorously contested, as Arizona or North Carolina will most likely be, given the greater expense of campaigning in Texas and the fact that it starts out to the right of those states. But if Democrats chose to contest it seriously in 2020, there wouldn’t be anything crazy about that.Nate Cohn is a domestic correspondent for The Upshot. He covers elections, polling and demographics. Before joining The Times in 2013, he worked as a staff writer for The New Republic.
@Nate_Cohn A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Why Texas Is Nearing Battleground Status (It’s Not Just O’Rourke). 

Opinion | Sure, Let’s Make the Senate Even Less Deliberative - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Sure, Let’s Make the Senate Even Less DeliberativeAdvertisementOpinionSupported bySure, Let’s Make the Senate Even Less DeliberativeRepublicans muscle through a rules change to shorten debate on nominations, further eroding the influence of the minority party.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.April 4, 2019ImageCreditCreditGrace Heejung KimSenate Republicans this week adopted rule changes that could make the august upper chamber something like a miniature version of the raucous and deeply partisan House.In a bid to speed confirmation of President Trump’s nominees, Republicans voted Wednesday to cut the debate time for lower-level judicial and administration picks from 30 hours to two. Ordinarily, such a rule change requires the backing of a two-thirds supermajority. But the Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, detonated the so-called nuclear option, lowering the threshold for passage to a simple majority — a move Mr. Trump had been clamoring for. Only two Republicans joined with Democrats to oppose this latest erosion of the minority party’s ability to “advise and consent.”This may sound like parliamentary arcana, but the impact should be clear to anyone unnerved by the Senate’s newish practice of ramming through Supreme Court picks with a bare majority — another Trump-era innovation by Mr. McConnell.The Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer, charged that the move “risks turning this body into a colosseum of zero-sum infighting, a place where the brute power of the majority rules, with little or no regard to the concerns of the minority party, and where longstanding rules have little or no meaning.”Mr. McConnell contends that he was forced into this by Democrats’ “mindless, undiscriminating obstruction for the sake of obstruction.” This claim will strike many as ludicrous. Well before the name Merrick Garland became synonymous with partisan stonewalling, Mr. McConnell was widely regarded as a master of obstruction, even by members of his own party.Even so, it was not the Republican leader who started the Senate down this path. That distinction goes to the former Democratic leader Harry Reid, who, in November 2013, went nuclear to dismantle the filibuster for most judicial and executive nominees. Irked by the Republican minority’s bottling up of President Barack Obama’s picks, Democrats overwhelmingly backed the measure, which passed by a four-vote margin.At the time, Mr. Reid blamed Republican obstructionism. “They have done everything they can to deny the fact that Obama has been elected and then re-elected,” he said.Like today’s Democrats, Republicans then warned of enduring damage to the institution. “Breaking the rules to change the rules is un-American,” said Mr. McConnell, then the minority leader. “I just hope the majority leader thinks about his legacy, the future of his party, and, most importantly, the future of our country before he acts.”Republicans also vowed that Mr. Reid’s team would live to regret crossing this line. “Democrats won’t be in power in perpetuity,” Senator Richard Shelby told reporters. “This is a mistake — a big one for the long run.”Not six years later, here we are. For all his complaints about Democratic obstructionism, Mr. McConnell has pushed through a record number of Mr. Trump’s judicial picks. In addition to killing the filibuster of Supreme Court nominees, Mr. McConnell ended the “blue slip” practice, a tradition that effectively gave senators veto power over nominees from their home state. Now he has done away with extended debate on most nominees.Someone needs to stop the spiral. There is much about Senate processes that should be reformed. But razing the body’s deliberative culture for partisan gain serves no one well, whichever side does it. Each line crossed makes the next one that much less daunting. This latest power grab has prompted concern about when the Senate will end the legislative filibuster. Such defanging of the minority would likely be a tough sell among lawmakers. But, as with confirmations, the 60-vote requirement on legislation would most likely end in stages, starting with baby steps like requiring only a simple majority to open debate.Democratic presidential hopefuls are being asked about the issue. None seem eager to wade in. Yet. But as 2020 approaches, the issue will become more charged, and with every perceived Republican affront, the Democratic base will grow more impatient for its team to play hardball. If Democrats retake the White House and Senate, the pressure to deal with Republican obstructionism will intensify as progressives push bold plans — “Medicare for all,” the Green New Deal, gun-safety measures, and so on — impossible to realize under the current system without a Senate supermajority. But if the rules were changed to allow passage with just 51 votes, who knows what could be achieved? This would make moving legislation through the often-infuriating upper chamber easier, more like in the House, which provides few protections against the tyranny of the majority. No doubt this would strike some as a great victory — until the next time their team lost power.More on the Senate “nuclear option”Senate Republicans Go ‘Nuclear’ to Speed Up Trump ConfirmationsApril 3, 2019G.O.P. Ready to ‘Nuke’ Senate Democrats Again Over Nominee DelaysFeb. 20, 2019Senate Republicans Deploy ‘Nuclear Option’ to Clear Path for GorsuchApril 6, 2017The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A24 of the New York edition with the headline: Sure, Make the Senate Less Deliberative. 

Trump Turns U.S. Policy in Central America on Its Head - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexAmericasSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperAmericas|Trump Turns U.S. Policy in Central America on Its HeadAdvertisementSupported byTrump Turns U.S. Policy in Central America on Its HeadImageThousands of migrants, part of a caravan from Honduras, wave the Honduran, Guatemalan, and Mexican flags as they enter the Mexican state of Oaxaca in October. President Trump announced a plan to cut off aid to three Central American countries for failing to stop the flow of migrants toward the United States.CreditCreditTodd Heisler/The New York TimesBy Elisabeth MalkinMarch 30, 2019MEXICO CITY — President Trump’s plan to cut off aid to three Central American countries for failing to stop the flow of migrants toward the United States breaks with years of conventional wisdom in Washington that the best way to halt migration is to attack its root causes.The decision also runs counter to the approach advocated by President Andrés Manuel López Obrador of Mexico, among others. Mr. López Obrador has been lobbying Washington to join his government in investing billions of dollars in Central America and southern Mexico, arguing that economic development and reducing violence are the most effective ways to encourage Central Americans to remain home.Cutting off aid is “shooting yourself in the foot,” said Adriana Beltrán, the director of citizen security at the Washington Office on Latin America, a human rights research group that tracks aid closely.But the president has become incensed at the growing numbers of families arriving at the southern border asking for asylum. His administration notified Congress late Friday that it intends to reprogram $450 million in aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador and has already sent instructions to embassies in the region.“No money goes there anymore,” he told reporters on Friday. “We’re giving them tremendous aid. We stopped payment.”While legislators have tools to push back against that decision, it is very possible that some, if not all of that aid, could be suspended for now.The decision turns American policy in the region on its head. Not only will it cut development and humanitarian assistance, but it will also halt joint law enforcement efforts, such as anti-gang units vetted by the United States, that had been supported by Republicans and the Trump administration until now, said Juan S. Gonzalez, a former deputy assistant secretary of state in the Obama administration.Indeed, just a day before Mr. Trump made the comments, the United States signed a border security agreement with the three Central American governments intended to increase cooperation against human trafficking and organized crime.Mr. Gonzalez said the aid withdrawal “undermines our interest,” adding that “we have actually had success against gangs in the United States by cooperating with regional law enforcement. It helped us prevent increased gang flow.”The decision also caught Mexico off guard. The government there was already rattled on Friday by Mr. Trump’s threat to close parts or all of the border as early as next week in response to the immigration surge and this was an added blow.ImageMexico President Andrés Manuel López Obrador has been lobbying Washington to join his government in investing billions of dollars in Central America and southern Mexico, arguing that economic development and mitigation of violence are the best ways to stop migration.CreditJose Mendez/EPA, via ShutterstockAdvocates argue that stopping aid will only aggravate the root causes that drive migrants to leave the three countries, where a long history of corrupt governments and rigid inequities perpetuate deep poverty.Gang violence, drug trafficking, and abusive security forces — some of it the result of American policies in the region that focused on fighting communism in the 1980s and drug trafficking since the 1990s — have led to the highest homicide rates in the world outside of war zones.The Obama administration ramped up aid after a surge of Central American children arrived at the Texas border in 2014. Aid to the region doubled in 2016 to about $750 million, according to the Washington Office on Latin America.Ms. Beltrán, a director of the group, said that aid after 2016 not only focused on violence and insecurity but reflected an understanding that “you needed to address the issues of governance and corruption, and you needed to create economic opportunities and build institutions.”With significant aid reaching the region only in 2017, there has not been much time for it have a strong impact.“There are long-term challenges that are going to need a long-term sustainable solution,” Ms. Beltrán said. “You can have a discussion as to how we can ensure that the aid is effective, that assistance is not going to supporting corrupt governments.”Much of the humanitarian aid is distributed through local governments and non-governmental organizations. Cutting off that help is “illogical and vindictive,” said Tim Rieser, a senior foreign policy aide to Sen. Patrick Leahy, the vice chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee.But cutting off direct aid to the national governments of the Northern Triangle countries may be long overdue, he added, because they are part of the problem.“Senator Leahy does not believe we should support governments that care more about enriching themselves and staying in power than addressing the needs of their own people,” he added, pointing to efforts by the governments of Honduras and Guatemala to control the courts and thwart anti-corruption efforts.The Trump administration has lifted some of the pressure as the governments of Guatemala and Honduras cultivated conservative allies in Washington and presented themselves as allies in drug interdiction.To win favor with Washington, Guatemala followed the Trump administration in moving its embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem last year. Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernández said last week that his government was opening a trade office in Jerusalem, which he called “a first step” toward moving his country’s embassy.There was no official response from Central American governments on Saturday. Ebal Díaz, the minister of the presidency, told Radio América, a Honduran broadcaster, that American aid was largely directed to nongovernmental humanitarian and aid groups.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump’s Plan to Cut Off Aid Would Upend U.S. Policy in Central America. 

Opinion | The Foreign Policy Fiasco That Wasn’t - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Foreign Policy Fiasco That Wasn’tAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Foreign Policy Fiasco That Wasn’tWithdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal has paid dividends.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistMarch 29, 2019ImageA refugee family near Aleppo, Syria, sitting beneath posters of Iranian and Syrian leaders.CreditCreditGeorge Outfalian/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesIt’s been nearly a year since Donald Trump made the decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal, to loud cries that it would bring nothing but woe to the United States and our interests in the Middle East.So far, the result has been closer to the opposite.That much was further made clear thanks to excellent reporting this week by The Times’s Ben Hubbard. “Iran’s financial crisis, exacerbated by American sanctions,” he writes from Lebanon, “appears to be undermining its support for militant groups and political allies who bolster Iranian influence in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon and elsewhere.” Well, heavens to Betsy. When the Obama administration negotiated the nuclear deal, the president acknowledged that sanctions relief for Tehran would inevitably mean more money for groups like Hezbollah. But he also insisted it wouldn’t make much of a difference in terms of Iran’s capacity to make mischief in the Middle East.Hubbard’s reporting suggests otherwise. Iran can no longer finance civilian projects or credit lines in Syria. Hezbollah fighters and Palestinian militants aren’t being paid, and their families are losing subsidized housing. Even Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah has complained publicly about the effects of U.S. sanctions.Nor are those the only benefits of withdrawal. The U.S. is no longer looking the other way at Hezbollah’s criminal enterprises, including drug smuggling and money laundering, the way it did during the Obama administration in order to engage Iran diplomatically. Iran’s protest movement, quashed in 2009, has shown signs of renewed life, not least because of public fury that the regime spends money on foreign adventures while economic conditions worsen at home. Most importantly, Iran has not used the U.S. withdrawal from the deal to restart its nuclear programs, despite its threats to do so. Part of this has to do with Tehran’s belief that it can wait Trump out, especially since Democrats like Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris have promised to re-enter the deal if elected. But it also suggests an edge of fear in Tehran’s calculations. The U.S. can still impose a great deal more pain on the Islamic Republic if it chooses to do so.How so? Mark Dubowitz of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies told me earlier this week that the sanctions needle now stands at around a 6. With a nod to Spin̈al Tap’s Nigel Tufnel, he says, “We need to get to 11.” Iran still exports about a million barrels of oil a day; the administration could bring it to zero by refusing to hand out sanctions waivers. The State Department could also designate the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as a foreign terrorist organization, on a par with Al Qaeda or the Islamic State. Such a designation, Dubowitz says, would “make the entire Iranian economy radioactive” to foreign investment, since the I.R.G.C. is heavily involved in scores of Iranian businesses.Even here Dubowitz is merely warming to his theme. Freeze Iran’s foreign exchange reserves? Doable. Expose the immense wealth of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and sanction the companies he and other leading regime figures control? Ditto. Unleash lawsuits against companies still doing business with Iran to recover billions of dollars in outstanding terrorism judgments against the country? That, too.The point isn’t to punish Iran for punishment’s sake. It’s to create leverage for a better nuclear deal. Last May, Mike Pompeo set a dozen parameters for an agreement, including “unqualified access” to U.N. nuclear inspectors, permanent cessation of uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing, the end of Iran’s ballistic-missile program, withdrawal of its forces from Syria, and the release of U.S. nationals held in its prisons. Pompeo’s demands have been alternatively dismissed as silly or reckless by most of Washington’s foreign policy establishment. But it says something about the debasement of diplomatic expectations — both of what we have a right to demand and what we think we can achieve — that any of it should be controversial.Non-nuclear states that sponsor terrorism and subscribe to millenarian ideologies should never have access to any part of the nuclear fuel cycle, ever. Any U.S. administration that abdicates the responsibility to do everything it can to prevent such access effectively renounces America’s status as a superpower as well.Iran’s G.D.P. is roughly equivalent to that of the greater Boston area, with 17 times the population. The regime may be a force to be reckoned with in the Middle East. But it is hardly a giant on the world stage, immune to any form of economic pressure. The Trump administration has succeeded in dramatically raising the costs to Iran for its sinister behavior, at no cost to the United States or our allies. That’s the definition of a foreign-policy achievement. It’s time to move the needle up again. The longer Hezbollah fighters go unpaid, or the Assad regime unaided, the better off the people of the Middle East will be.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.
@BretStephensNYT • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: The Foreign
Policy Fiasco
That Wasn’t. 

Opinion | Immigration Detention Program - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Immigration Detention ProgramAdvertisementOpinionSupported byletterImmigration Detention ProgramGEO Group, a government contractor, takes issue with an Op-Ed article.Feb. 19, 2019ImageOn May Day in New York last year, labor and immigration activists rallied against financial institutions’ support of private prisons and immigrant detention centers.CreditCreditDrew Angerer/Getty ImagesTo the Editor:Re “Forced to Work for Pennies an Hour” (Op-Ed, Jan. 30):We take issue with Victoria Law’s characterization of the services that GEO Group has provided to the government for more than three decades, under Democratic and Republican administrations.The Voluntary Work Program is a required program at all Immigration and Customs Enforcement facilities. The Obama administration codified it in Performance-Based National Detention Standards in 2011, stating that its purpose, among other goals, is to reduce idleness, improve morale and lower disciplinary incidents.GEO is contractually required to meet each of ICE’s standards. The program is strictly voluntary, and those participating in it are compensated by ICE according to the statutory reimbursement rate set by Congress.The program costs are a direct pass-through to the government, and therefore our company does not benefit financially from it. If Congress increased the reimbursement rate, any additional costs would be borne by the government. If the terms of the program are modified, we will faithfully follow them.Claims of coercion are untrue. Those in our care are provided three daily meals, free of charge, and free hygiene products on demand.We understand that America’s immigration debate is contentious, with strongly held beliefs. We do not take positions on immigration enforcement or detention policies.David VenturellaBoca Raton, Fla.The writer is senior vice president of GEO Group, a provider of correctional and detention management, community re-entry and rehabilitation services to government agencies.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Immigration Detention. 

Eager to Court Jews (and Fracture Democrats), Republicans Push Bills on Anti-Semitism - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Eager to Court Jews (and Fracture Democrats), Republicans Push Bills on Anti-SemitismAdvertisementSupported byEager to Court Jews (and Fracture Democrats), Republicans Push Bills on Anti-SemitismImageSenator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, is pushing two new bills timed to be trumpeted at this week’s annual meeting in Washington of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.CreditCreditErin Schaff/The New York TimesBy Glenn ThrushMarch 24, 2019WASHINGTON — Democrats hoped to put their wrenching intraparty debate over anti-Semitism to rest when they passed a catchall antibigotry resolution in the House this month, but Senate Republicans, eager to court American Jews outraged by the rise of anti-Semitism, have other plans.Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader in the Senate, is backing two new bills timed to be trumpeted at this week’s annual meeting in Washington of the largest pro-Israel advocacy group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee. Mr. McConnell has already passed a measure this year giving local and state governments the authority to break ties with companies that boycott or divest from Israel.The actions are part of a larger political strategy aimed, in part, at showing that Republicans are more willing to directly tackle anti-Semitic hate speech and anti-Israel language than divided Democrats in the lower chamber, Republican aides and operatives said. But hate speech has hardly been a longtime cause célèbre for the Republican Party, whose members have opposed efforts to expand similar protections to victims of discrimination based on gender and sexual orientation.One measure, a “sense of the Senate” resolution, is intended as a direct rebuke of comments made by Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, who suggested that some American Jews had dual loyalties to both Israel and the United States. The bill, sponsored by Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, could reach the floor as early as this week, leadership aides said, and is likely to be passed unanimously or with only minimal opposition.The centerpiece of the resolution is the declaration that “anti-Semitism has for hundreds of years included attacks on the loyalty of Jews.”A draft circulated in the Senate also links the dual loyalty charge to the “circulation of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion by the secret police of Russia,” a reference to a fabricated early-20th century document intended to whip up anti-Semitism by purporting to show a Jewish plot for global domination.Senate Republicans have not always been so enthusiastic about toughening anti-discrimination enforcement. Efforts by Democrats during the Obama administration to pass the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which added gender, sexual orientation and disability to the list of federally recognized hate crimes, were initially blocked by Republicans, led by Jeff Sessions, then a senator and later Mr. Trump’s first attorney general.The measure eventually passed in 2009, but only five Senate Republicans voted yes. Mr. McConnell and many members of his current leadership team opposed it.The sense of the Senate measure is intended as a challenge to Ms. Omar, although her name was intentionally omitted from the text to attract Democrats who might otherwise object, according to an aide involved in the drafting process.“It’s absolutely critical for the United States Senate to stand up, speak with one voice and condemn” anti-Semitism, said Billy Gribbin, a spokesman for Mr. Cruz.A second, less drastic bill — a bipartisan effort to target anti-Semitism on college campuses through the Education Department’s civil rights enforcement division — poses a far more substantial political threat to Democrats trying to move quickly past the dust-up over Ms. Omar.ImageOne of the measures is intended as a rebuke of Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, whose remarks some critics have deemed anti-Semitic.CreditTom Brenner for The New York TimesThe Anti-Semitism Awareness Act, which is working its way through committee, is likely to pass the Senate this year, and could force Speaker Nancy Pelosi into the uncomfortable position of brokering another deal between progressives and Jewish Democrats at a time when she wants the chamber to focus on presenting unified opposition to President Trump.The measure, co-sponsored by Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, and Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, passed the Senate in 2016 with bipartisan support. But it quickly stalled in the House, which was then controlled by Republicans, and attracted the opposition of many civil liberties groups that believe it threatens free speech on campuses.The bill broadly defines anti-Semitism as “harassment on the basis of actual or perceived shared ancestry or ethnic characteristics with a religious group” and also targets “discriminatory anti-Israel conduct that crosses the line into anti-Semitism.”Under the measure, the Education Department would be required to investigate and possibly penalize universities that receive federal aid if they failed to crack down on incidents, using the same process laid out under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which has historically been used to deal with discrimination based on race.Ms. Pelosi has not said whether she would support the bill if it passed the Senate, and a spokeswoman declined to comment. A House leadership aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized publicly, said the bill was likely to draw extended scrutiny in House committees before — or if — it was ever considered on the floor.It is not clear how Ms. Omar and other progressives would vote on the measure, although similar efforts have attracted opposition on the basis of objections by the American Civil Liberties Union and progressive Jewish groups.“This legislation appears designed less to combat anti-Semitism than to have a chilling effect and to crack down on campus critics of Israel,” Jeremy Ben-Ami, the president of J Street, a liberal advocacy group that has been sharply critical of Israel’s government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, said in a text message.“It’s misguided to legislatively declare a broad range of nonviolent campus criticism of Israel as anti-Semitism, especially at a time when the prime driver of anti-Semitism is the xenophobic, white nationalist far-right,” he said. “This bill is part of a cynical effort by some of its right-wing proponents to turn the issue of anti-Semitism into a partisan political weapon.”But in the past, the bill has had widespread support among lawmakers in both parties, and it has the backing of Aipac and the Anti-Defamation League. It also has the support of a powerful outside advocate: David Krone, the hard-driving former chief of staff to Harry Reid, the former Senate Democratic leader, who has used his contacts in the party to push the measure for several years in response to a wave of anti-Semitism on college campuses.“I find great irony in what Congresswoman Omar said about the issue of Jews and dual loyalty,” Mr. Krone said in an interview. “I am certain that she found the whole birther movement disgusting, vile and flat-out racist. I agree. It was abhorrent to question the loyalty of President Obama. But how, on one hand, can she say it is wrong about people questioning President Obama’s loyalties, but on the other hand, question mine as a Jew? What she said and what some stupid birther said are equally idiotic.”Ms. Omar’s spokesman did not immediately return a request for comment.Top Democrats are hardly ready to cede support of Israel to Republicans. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Democratic leader, gave a rousing defense of the American-Israeli relationship at the Aipac conference Sunday evening, promising to push for a resolution that opposes the boycott Israel movement. Without naming her, he took several jabs at Ms. Omar.“Ladies and gentlemen, when someone accuses American supporters of dual loyalty, I say: Accuse me.” Mr. Hoyer declared.And he also took a shot at two other freshman Democrats who are critical of Israel, Representatives Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York: “By the way, there are 62 freshman Democrats. You hear me? Sixty-two, not three.”Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: Testing Divided Democrats, Republicans Push Anti-Semitism Bills. 

State of the Union Fact Check: What Trump Got Right and Wrong - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|State of the Union Fact Check: What Trump Got Right and WrongAdvertisementSupported byState of the Union Fact Check: What Trump Got Right and WrongPresident Trump appeared in front of a joint session of Congress for the annual address. Here is how his remarks stacked up against the facts. ImagePresident Trump during the State of the Union address on Tuesday.CreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesBy The New York TimesFeb. 5, 2019President Trump leaned hard on the strength of the American economy during his second State of the Union address on Tuesday, but with a blend of precise statistics and gauzy superlatives that are much more difficult to measure.He also returned to a theme that dominated the second year of his presidency — a quest for a border wall with Mexico to cope with what he said is a crisis of crime and drugs in the United States caused by illegal immigration.The two issues dominated his address, which in tone was more measured than his biting Twitter feed, but in substance contained numerous claims that were false or misleading.Here is what Mr. Trump said and how it stacked up against the facts. [Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]The economy “The U.S. economy is growing almost twice as fast today as when I took office, and we are considered far and away the hottest economy anywhere in the world.”This is false. The American economy expanded at an annual rate of 3.5 percent in the third quarter of 2018. Growth in Latvia and Poland was almost twice as fast. Same for China and India. Even the troubled Greek economy posted stronger growth. And a wide range of economic analysts estimate that the growth of the American economy slowed in the fourth quarter, and slowed even further in the first month of 2019. “We recently imposed tariffs on $250 billion of Chinese goods — and now our Treasury is receiving billions and billions of dollars.”This is true.Since Mr. Trump imposed tariffs on certain imports from China — and imported steel and aluminum from around the world — federal tariff revenues have increased. Revenues from customs duties, which include tariffs, rose by $13 billion in the third quarter of 2018 compared with a year earlier, the Commerce Department reported. Technically, that money is paid by Americans who bring the goods across the border, and it is often passed on to American consumers in the form of higher prices.“My administration has cut more regulations in a short period of time than any other administration during its entire tenure.”This is false.The Trump administration has slowed the pace of adopting new rules, and it has moved to roll back some existing or proposed federal regulations, particularly in the area of environmental protection. The White House claimed that as of October, a total of $33 billion worth of future regulator costs had been eliminated. But experts say the scale of the rollbacks in the Trump era still does not exceed extensive cuts in federal rules during the Carter and Reagan administrations, when rules governing airline, truck and rail transportation were wiped off the books, among other changes. “We have created 5.3 million new jobs and importantly added 600,000 new manufacturing jobs — something which almost everyone said was impossible to do, but the fact is, we are just getting started.” This is false. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that since January 2017, when Mr. Trump took office, the economy has added 4.9 million jobs, including 454,000 jobs manufacturing jobs. Far from being “impossible,” that is closely comparable to the pace of job creation during some two-year periods during the Obama administration, and significantly slower than the pace of job creation in manufacturing in the 1990s.Wages were “growing for blue-collar workers, who I promised to fight for. They are growing faster than anyone thought possible.”This is true.Wages are rising faster for construction and manufacturing workers than workers in service occupations, according to the Labor Department.“More people are working now than at any time in our history.”This is misleading.While the total number of people working in the United States is higher than ever, it is not because of the president’s policies. It is because more people than ever live in the United States. Immigration“The border city of El Paso, Tex., used to have extremely high rates of violent crime — one of the highest in the entire country, and considered one of our nation’s most dangerous cities. Now, immediately upon its building, with a powerful barrier in place, El Paso is one of the safest cities in our country.” This is false.El Paso was never one of the most dangerous cities in the United States, and crime has been declining in cities across the country — not just El Paso — for reasons that have nothing to do with border fencing. In 2008, before border barriers had been completed in El Paso, the city had the second-lowest violent crime rate among more than 20 similarly sized cities. In 2010, after the fencing went up, it held that place.“San Diego used to have the most illegal border crossings in our country. In response, a strong security wall was put in place. This powerful barrier almost completely ended illegal crossings.” This is misleading.Border apprehensions decreased by 91 percent in the San Diego sector between the 1994 fiscal year, right after the original border fencing was completed, to the 2018 fiscal year. But, according to the Congressional Research Service, that fence alone “did not have a discernible impact” on the number of immigrants crossing the border into the United States illegally. “As we speak, large, organized caravans are on the march to the United States.”This is exaggerated.At the end of January, a new caravan of thousands of migrants from Central America was headed north, and some of the travelers said they intended to try to cross into the United States. But many in the caravan have said they plan to remain in Mexico, thanks in part to policies put in place by the new Mexican government. President Andrés Manuel López Obrador has made it easier for Central Americans to get visas and work in Mexico. President Trump’s warnings of an imminent invasion from new caravans is overstated.“I hope you can pass the U.S.M.C.A. into law, so we can bring back our manufacturing jobs in even greater numbers, expanding American agriculture, protecting intellectual property, and ensuring that more cars are proudly stamped with the four beautiful words: Made in the U.S.A.”This is exaggerated.The revised trade deal with Canada and Mexico, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, does include provisions that are intended to bring manufacturing jobs back to the United States — like minimum wage provisions for some auto manufacturing. But some economists have said those provisions could ultimately push more manufacturing — and jobs — outside North America. The deal does allow American farmers to sell more dairy products to Canada. But the trade pact has yet to be approved by Congress, and both Democrats and Republicans say that is unlikely to happen without significant changes.Foreign policy"When I took office, ISIS controlled more than 20,000 square miles in Iraq and Syria. Just two years ago. Today, we have liberated virtually all of the territory from the grip of these bloodthirsty monsters.” This is true.The Defense Department reports that the Islamic State now controls only around 20 square miles of territory in Syria, down from 34,000 in 2014. But many of the gains against the Sunni extremist caliphate began under President Barack Obama, with the Trump administration continuing Obama administration policy. And the top American military commander in the Middle East told a Senate hearing on Tuesday that the Islamic State could return if the United States and its allies abandoned the fight. In December, Mr. Trump announced he was withdrawing American troops from Syria.“We condemn the brutality of the Maduro regime, whose socialist policies have turned that nation from being the wealthiest in South America into a state of abject poverty and despair.”This is misleading.This has become a popular talking point among American conservatives. It is true that the rule of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela has brought that country to economic ruin. Inflation is at astronomical rates, and ordinary people are struggling to get basic food and health supplies. Three million citizens have fled. Some of the collapse can be traced to Mr. Maduro’s economic policies, which do fall under the broad label of socialism. But analysts say that corruption, the lack of rule of law and the absence of democracy — all the hallmarks of a dictatorship — have played just as big or larger roles. “If I had not been elected president of the United States, we would right now, in my opinion, be in a major war with North Korea."There is no evidence.In 2016, at the end of the Obama administration, there was no sign that the United States and North Korea were about to go to war, though Pyongyang had been conducting nuclear tests and Mr. Obama had continued economic sanctions. In Mr. Trump’s first year in office, he increased tensions with North Korea by attacking its leader, Kim Jong-un, in a series of Twitter posts, which prompted hostile statements from Pyongyang. Mr. Trump wrote that North Korea’s actions would be met with “fire and fury” and called Mr. Kim “Little Rocket Man.” Analysts said at the time that the chances of war between the two nations had grown because of these exchanges.Abortion “Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments from birth.”This is misleading.On Jan. 22, the 46th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s landmark decision Roe v. Wade, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Democrat of New York, signed the Reproductive Health Act. The new law ensures a woman’s right to an abortion in New York if Roe v. Wade were to be overturned. It does not broadly allow abortions until shortly before birth, as Mr. Trump suggested. Instead, it will allow for an abortion after 24 weeks to protect the mother’s health or if the fetus is not viable. Under the prior law, abortions were allowed after 24 weeks only if the woman’s life was in jeopardy.“We had the case of the governor of Virginia where he stated he would execute a baby after birth.”This is false.In an interview last month, Gov. Ralph Northam said that he supported a late-term abortion bill that would loosen restrictions on the procedure, and allow women to consult with a doctor on an abortion up to, but not including, the time of birth.The governor, a pediatric neurologist, also talked about some of the dangerous medical emergencies that pregnant women could face, such as carrying a nonviable fetus. He said that in such a case, the mother would deliver the infant and then, “the infant would be resuscitated if that’s what the mother and the family desired, and then a discussion would ensue between the physicians and the mother.” While Mr. Northam was talking about an end-of-life care discussion in the case of a child that would not live, Republicans seized on his remarks as evidence that Mr. Northam supported killing babies after their birth.Reporting was contributed by Eileen Sullivan, Michael Tackett, Linda Qiu, Edward Wong, Eric Lipton, Eric Schmitt, Adam Liptak, Binyamin Appelbaum, Caitlin Dickerson, Charlie Savage, Coral Davenport, Glenn Thrush, Helene Cooper, Jim Tankersley, Julian E. Barnes, Katie Benner, Matt Phillips, Robert Pear and Thomas Gibbons-Neff.Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com RelatedMore coverage of the State of the UnionTrump Asks for Unity, but Presses Hard Line on ImmigrationFeb. 5, 2019Internet Sees a Clapback in Nancy Pelosi’s Applause of TrumpFeb. 6, 2019What Is Late-Term Abortion? Trump Got It WrongFeb. 6, 2019Opinion | David LeonhardtThe Real State of the Union, in ChartsFeb. 5, 2019Opinion | Frank BruniIn State of the Union Speech, Trump Comes Out as a FeministFeb. 6, 2019A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Statistics and Superlatives, and Truths, Exaggerations and Falsehoods. 

Opinion | It’s Bigger Than Mueller and Trump - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|It’s Bigger Than Mueller and TrumpAdvertisementOpinionSupported byIt’s Bigger Than Mueller and TrumpTrumpism follows a historical pattern: Whenever black people make progress, white people respond forcefully.By Charles M. BlowOpinion ColumnistMarch 24, 2019ImageThe very symbols of Trumpism — the MAGA hats, the wall — are more than physical objects. They are now the new iconography of white supremacy.CreditCreditAl Drago for The New York TimesThe Mueller Report has landed … with a thud. According to summary findings released by Attorney General William Barr, the special counsel Robert Mueller’s nearly two-year-long investigation found no conspiracy between Donald Trump and his associates and Russia. The report would seem to support Trump’s mantra: No collusion. Trump will no doubt use these findings as a cudgel against future inquiries, regardless of merit.The report did not, however, exonerate Trump of obstruction of justice. I submit that we witnessed that Trump obstructed justice in open view, from the White House and on social media.And while Trump waged a two-year battle of slander and misinformation to defame the Mueller investigation, the majority of Democratic leadership did nothing to make the case that he had already reached the threshold of accountability, even without the report. Instead, they put too many eggs in the Mueller basket, and allowed Trump to move the goal posts. Indeed, now the goal posts are permanently affixed to skates.The best case against Donald Trump and the age of Trumpism has always been, and remains, the moral case. Criminality is only one facet of that, although it is the one that the courts and Congress can use to punish him.As for the people, the voters, it is the moral abomination of having a racist, sexist, child-caging, family-separating, Muslim-hating transphobe as president that must remain front and center. That is the only way to move beyond Trump in 2020.The Mueller report is a cautionary tale. There are no magic bullets, no devastating facts, no pivotal events that can undo what Trump has wrought. Trumpism is bigger than Trump. It is a rebranding of a consistent and increasingly resurgent strand of white American anxiety about primacy, privilege and displacement.The very symbols of Trumpism — the MAGA hats, the wall, etc. — are more than merely physical objects. They have long since transcended their original meaning and purpose. They are now emblems. They are now the new iconography of white supremacy, white nationalist defiance and white cultural defense.They are a form of white pride credentialing.In much the same way that the Confederate flag became a white supremacist signaling device, wearing the MAGA hat and self-identifying as a “Trump supporter” now serves the same purpose.The symbols are tangentially connected to Trump, but they also transcend him. They are a way of cloaking racial hostility in the presentable form of politics.This isn’t restricted to America. Much of the West is now in the grips of rising nationalism, in general, and white nationalism, in particular.Cultural forces are being marshaled against waves of immigrants from the South — primarily from Latin America in the United States and from Africa and the Middle East in Europe.In this way, nationalism has taken on an international solidarity. It is a multinational white tribalism on display, and what is being exposed will not easily be squelched or beaten back.In America, this recent rise of white nationalism follows a historical pattern: Whenever black people make progress, white people feel threatened and respond forcefully.Emancipation and the Civil War gave rise to the Ku Klux Klan, which formed just months after the war ended. The Supreme Court’s decision in Brown v. Board of Education, striking down racial segregation in schools, gave rise to the white supremacist Citizens’ Councils. The election of the first black president gave rise to the Tea Party, which was formed soon after Barack Obama was sworn in.Donald Trump took the anti-Obama energy the Tea Party had stirred and fashioned it into something more dangerous: a theology whose singular principle was white power, the power of white people to defend a country they believe they built and own, and the power of white people to excel even when they’re awful.Now, immigrants have become the “rising threat” that was once ascribed solely to black people. White people used the threat of “Negro domination” to call state constitutional conventions to write white supremacy into the constitutions of Southern states.READ MORE FROM THE NEW YORK TIMES OPINION SECTIONOpinion | The Editorial Board: No Collusion, No ‘Exoneration’March 24, 2019Opinion | Neal K. Katyal: The Many Problems With the Barr LetterMarch 24, 2019Opinion | Noah Bookbinder: Release the Whole Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Today the “threat” is a majority-minority country, and there is a move underway to get states to sign on to force a convention for the U.S. Constitution.As was reported on Bill Moyer’s website in 2017:“A constitutional convention, something thought impossible not long ago, is looking increasingly likely. Under Article V of the U.S. Constitution, if 34 state legislatures ‘issue a call’ for a constitutional convention, Congress must convene one. By some counts, the right wing only needs six more states. Once called, delegates can propose and vote on changes and new amendments to the U.S. Constitution, which, if approved, are currently required to be ratified by 38 states.”As the report points out, “once a convention is underway, all bets are off.” Anything can happen.What we are living through is not a battle but a war. It is far bigger and far more dangerous than Trump. And we will be engaged in the fight long after Trump has vanished, or has been vanquished.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram. Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.
@CharlesMBlow • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: It’s Bigger Than Mueller And Trump. 

Opinion | The Federal Reserve Is Courting Trouble - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Federal Reserve Is Courting TroubleAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Federal Reserve Is Courting TroubleStephen Moore and Herman Cain aren’t the only problems. The Fed needs to make changes to avoid repeating its post-recession mistakes.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.April 9, 2019ImageThe Federal Reserve in Washington.CreditCreditDamon Winter/The New York TimesThe Federal Reserve, along with Congress, failed to take sufficient steps to revive the economy after the 2008 financial crisis. One simple measure of the inadequacy of the government’s response is that inflation has remained persistently below the 2 percent annual rate the Fed regards as optimal, a sign of an underachieving economy.Some liberals have complained for years about the Fed’s lack of urgency as millions of Americans struggled to find jobs, or lived without significant wage increases. Since President Trump’s election in 2016, a growing number of Republicans have decided they, too, favor stronger economic growth. Mr. Trump himself has been particularly outspoken, loudly and repeatedly pressing the Fed to reduce borrowing costs.Lately Mr. Trump has gone even further, declaring he plans to nominate two of his political supporters, Stephen Moore and Herman Cain, to the Fed’s board of governors. Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain are exceptionally unqualified to serve on the Fed’s board. Both men argued for the Fed to reduce its economic stimulus campaign while Barack Obama was president and then began to insist the Fed should do more following Mr. Trump’s election. Since the need for economic stimulus was greater during the Obama years, the positions taken by Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain demonstrate either a profound lack of understanding of monetary policy — or a view that the Fed should serve the political needs of the Republican Party. Or perhaps both. It’s little consolation that they seem unlikely to influence the 17 current members of the Fed’s monetary policymaking committee. If they are confirmed, it would upend a longstanding bipartisan commitment to filling the Fed’s board with highly qualified technocrats who seek to serve the nation’s long-term economic interest.But the Fed and its defenders must do more than try to bar the doors of its marble headquarters. The Fed’s critics have a point. Congress has sheltered the central bank from political interference so it can make difficult decisions in the interest of the American people. The Fed needs to show it has learned from its disappointing performance over the last decade. It needs to articulate a plan to respond more effectively to the next downturn.The core of the problem is the Fed’s inflation target. Since the double-digit inflation rates of the late 1970s, the Fed has focused on maintaining slow and steady inflation. In 2012, it formalized an annual target of 2 percent. But the Fed has fallen short of that mark in six of the last seven years, and its top officials predict it will miss the target again in 2019.After the 2008 crisis, the Fed repeatedly hesitated to provide larger doses of economic stimulus because it was concerned about overshooting the target. In plain English, the Fed allowed millions of Americans to remain unemployed or underpaid because it feared that prices would start rising more quickly. It is now clear the Fed miscalculated — and caused a lot of pain.Low inflation also is a problem in its own right. It may seem odd to seek higher prices, but economists generally agree that a little inflation is a good thing. It keeps the economy at a safe distance from the prospect of a general decline in prices, or deflation, which can limit economic activity as people wait for still lower prices. Inflation also gives the Fed more room to cut borrowing costs during economic downturns. And inflation eases economic adjustments by allowing companies to cut real wages without cutting nominal wages.The Fed is a deliberate animal; it has always preferred to fail by not doing enough. But there are signs the Fed is aware of the need for change. Jerome Powell, the Fed’s chairman, said in March that low inflation is “one of the major challenges of our time.” The Fed is hosting a conference in Chicago in June to gather advice from outside experts.Already there are a number of interesting ideas in circulation. Mr. Powell’s immediate predecessors, Janet Yellen and Ben Bernanke, both have backed a proposal for the Fed to allow higher inflation after periods of low inflation — in effect, replacing the Fed’s 2 percent annual inflation target with the goal of hitting a 2 percent average over time.Others would like the Fed to set a 4 percent inflation target, or to replace inflation targeting entirely. Under one alternative, nominal G.D.P. targeting, the Fed would aim for a steady rate of growth in the value of the nation’s economic output — a measure that includes the effects of inflation. During periods of slower growth in the inflation-adjusted value of that economic output, the Fed would seek to compensate by allowing higher inflation.All of these are fancy ways of saying that the Fed should have kept interest rates lower for longer after the 2008 recession, to deliver a significantly stronger dose of economic stimulus, and that it should show a little less fear of inflation the next time the economy needs its help.By choosing one of these methods, the Fed can begin to demonstrate that it has learned the lesson.RelatedOpinion | Paul KrugmanWhy Does Trump Want to Debase the Fed?April 8, 2019In Fed and Out, Many Now Think Inflation HelpsOct. 26, 2013Opinion | Binyamin AppelbaumStephen Moore Would Be a Loyalist, not an Expert, at the FedMarch 23, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: The Fed Is Courting Trouble. 

Opinion | It’s Bigger Than Mueller and Trump - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|It’s Bigger Than Mueller and TrumpAdvertisementOpinionSupported byIt’s Bigger Than Mueller and TrumpTrumpism follows a historical pattern: Whenever black people make progress, white people respond forcefully.By Charles M. BlowOpinion ColumnistMarch 24, 2019ImageThe very symbols of Trumpism — the MAGA hats, the wall — are more than physical objects. They are now the new iconography of white supremacy.CreditCreditAl Drago for The New York TimesThe Mueller Report has landed … with a thud. According to summary findings released by Attorney General William Barr, the special counsel Robert Mueller’s nearly two-year-long investigation found no conspiracy between Donald Trump and his associates and Russia. The report would seem to support Trump’s mantra: No collusion. Trump will no doubt use these findings as a cudgel against future inquiries, regardless of merit.The report did not, however, exonerate Trump of obstruction of justice. I submit that we witnessed that Trump obstructed justice in open view, from the White House and on social media.And while Trump waged a two-year battle of slander and misinformation to defame the Mueller investigation, the majority of Democratic leadership did nothing to make the case that he had already reached the threshold of accountability, even without the report. Instead, they put too many eggs in the Mueller basket, and allowed Trump to move the goal posts. Indeed, now the goal posts are permanently affixed to skates.The best case against Donald Trump and the age of Trumpism has always been, and remains, the moral case. Criminality is only one facet of that, although it is the one that the courts and Congress can use to punish him.As for the people, the voters, it is the moral abomination of having a racist, sexist, child-caging, family-separating, Muslim-hating transphobe as president that must remain front and center. That is the only way to move beyond Trump in 2020.The Mueller report is a cautionary tale. There are no magic bullets, no devastating facts, no pivotal events that can undo what Trump has wrought. Trumpism is bigger than Trump. It is a rebranding of a consistent and increasingly resurgent strand of white American anxiety about primacy, privilege and displacement.The very symbols of Trumpism — the MAGA hats, the wall, etc. — are more than merely physical objects. They have long since transcended their original meaning and purpose. They are now emblems. They are now the new iconography of white supremacy, white nationalist defiance and white cultural defense.They are a form of white pride credentialing.In much the same way that the Confederate flag became a white supremacist signaling device, wearing the MAGA hat and self-identifying as a “Trump supporter” now serves the same purpose.The symbols are tangentially connected to Trump, but they also transcend him. They are a way of cloaking racial hostility in the presentable form of politics.This isn’t restricted to America. Much of the West is now in the grips of rising nationalism, in general, and white nationalism, in particular.Cultural forces are being marshaled against waves of immigrants from the South — primarily from Latin America in the United States and from Africa and the Middle East in Europe.In this way, nationalism has taken on an international solidarity. It is a multinational white tribalism on display, and what is being exposed will not easily be squelched or beaten back.In America, this recent rise of white nationalism follows a historical pattern: Whenever black people make progress, white people feel threatened and respond forcefully.Emancipation and the Civil War gave rise to the Ku Klux Klan, which formed just months after the war ended. The Supreme Court’s decision in Brown v. Board of Education, striking down racial segregation in schools, gave rise to the white supremacist Citizens’ Councils. The election of the first black president gave rise to the Tea Party, which was formed soon after Barack Obama was sworn in.Donald Trump took the anti-Obama energy the Tea Party had stirred and fashioned it into something more dangerous: a theology whose singular principle was white power, the power of white people to defend a country they believe they built and own, and the power of white people to excel even when they’re awful.Now, immigrants have become the “rising threat” that was once ascribed solely to black people. White people used the threat of “Negro domination” to call state constitutional conventions to write white supremacy into the constitutions of Southern states.READ MORE FROM THE NEW YORK TIMES OPINION SECTIONOpinion | The Editorial Board: No Collusion, No ‘Exoneration’March 24, 2019Opinion | Neal K. Katyal: The Many Problems With the Barr LetterMarch 24, 2019Opinion | Noah Bookbinder: Release the Whole Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Today the “threat” is a majority-minority country, and there is a move underway to get states to sign on to force a convention for the U.S. Constitution.As was reported on Bill Moyer’s website in 2017:“A constitutional convention, something thought impossible not long ago, is looking increasingly likely. Under Article V of the U.S. Constitution, if 34 state legislatures ‘issue a call’ for a constitutional convention, Congress must convene one. By some counts, the right wing only needs six more states. Once called, delegates can propose and vote on changes and new amendments to the U.S. Constitution, which, if approved, are currently required to be ratified by 38 states.”As the report points out, “once a convention is underway, all bets are off.” Anything can happen.What we are living through is not a battle but a war. It is far bigger and far more dangerous than Trump. And we will be engaged in the fight long after Trump has vanished, or has been vanquished.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and Instagram. Charles Blow joined The Times in 1994 and became an Opinion columnist in 2008. He is also a television commentator and writes often about politics, social justice and vulnerable communities.
@CharlesMBlow • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: It’s Bigger Than Mueller And Trump. 

Opinion | The Federal Reserve Is Courting Trouble - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Federal Reserve Is Courting TroubleAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Federal Reserve Is Courting TroubleStephen Moore and Herman Cain aren’t the only problems. The Fed needs to make changes to avoid repeating its post-recession mistakes.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.April 9, 2019ImageThe Federal Reserve in Washington.CreditCreditDamon Winter/The New York TimesThe Federal Reserve, along with Congress, failed to take sufficient steps to revive the economy after the 2008 financial crisis. One simple measure of the inadequacy of the government’s response is that inflation has remained persistently below the 2 percent annual rate the Fed regards as optimal, a sign of an underachieving economy.Some liberals have complained for years about the Fed’s lack of urgency as millions of Americans struggled to find jobs, or lived without significant wage increases. Since President Trump’s election in 2016, a growing number of Republicans have decided they, too, favor stronger economic growth. Mr. Trump himself has been particularly outspoken, loudly and repeatedly pressing the Fed to reduce borrowing costs.Lately Mr. Trump has gone even further, declaring he plans to nominate two of his political supporters, Stephen Moore and Herman Cain, to the Fed’s board of governors. Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain are exceptionally unqualified to serve on the Fed’s board. Both men argued for the Fed to reduce its economic stimulus campaign while Barack Obama was president and then began to insist the Fed should do more following Mr. Trump’s election. Since the need for economic stimulus was greater during the Obama years, the positions taken by Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain demonstrate either a profound lack of understanding of monetary policy — or a view that the Fed should serve the political needs of the Republican Party. Or perhaps both. It’s little consolation that they seem unlikely to influence the 17 current members of the Fed’s monetary policymaking committee. If they are confirmed, it would upend a longstanding bipartisan commitment to filling the Fed’s board with highly qualified technocrats who seek to serve the nation’s long-term economic interest.But the Fed and its defenders must do more than try to bar the doors of its marble headquarters. The Fed’s critics have a point. Congress has sheltered the central bank from political interference so it can make difficult decisions in the interest of the American people. The Fed needs to show it has learned from its disappointing performance over the last decade. It needs to articulate a plan to respond more effectively to the next downturn.The core of the problem is the Fed’s inflation target. Since the double-digit inflation rates of the late 1970s, the Fed has focused on maintaining slow and steady inflation. In 2012, it formalized an annual target of 2 percent. But the Fed has fallen short of that mark in six of the last seven years, and its top officials predict it will miss the target again in 2019.After the 2008 crisis, the Fed repeatedly hesitated to provide larger doses of economic stimulus because it was concerned about overshooting the target. In plain English, the Fed allowed millions of Americans to remain unemployed or underpaid because it feared that prices would start rising more quickly. It is now clear the Fed miscalculated — and caused a lot of pain.Low inflation also is a problem in its own right. It may seem odd to seek higher prices, but economists generally agree that a little inflation is a good thing. It keeps the economy at a safe distance from the prospect of a general decline in prices, or deflation, which can limit economic activity as people wait for still lower prices. Inflation also gives the Fed more room to cut borrowing costs during economic downturns. And inflation eases economic adjustments by allowing companies to cut real wages without cutting nominal wages.The Fed is a deliberate animal; it has always preferred to fail by not doing enough. But there are signs the Fed is aware of the need for change. Jerome Powell, the Fed’s chairman, said in March that low inflation is “one of the major challenges of our time.” The Fed is hosting a conference in Chicago in June to gather advice from outside experts.Already there are a number of interesting ideas in circulation. Mr. Powell’s immediate predecessors, Janet Yellen and Ben Bernanke, both have backed a proposal for the Fed to allow higher inflation after periods of low inflation — in effect, replacing the Fed’s 2 percent annual inflation target with the goal of hitting a 2 percent average over time.Others would like the Fed to set a 4 percent inflation target, or to replace inflation targeting entirely. Under one alternative, nominal G.D.P. targeting, the Fed would aim for a steady rate of growth in the value of the nation’s economic output — a measure that includes the effects of inflation. During periods of slower growth in the inflation-adjusted value of that economic output, the Fed would seek to compensate by allowing higher inflation.All of these are fancy ways of saying that the Fed should have kept interest rates lower for longer after the 2008 recession, to deliver a significantly stronger dose of economic stimulus, and that it should show a little less fear of inflation the next time the economy needs its help.By choosing one of these methods, the Fed can begin to demonstrate that it has learned the lesson.RelatedOpinion | Paul KrugmanWhy Does Trump Want to Debase the Fed?April 8, 2019In Fed and Out, Many Now Think Inflation HelpsOct. 26, 2013Opinion | Binyamin AppelbaumStephen Moore Would Be a Loyalist, not an Expert, at the FedMarch 23, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: The Fed Is Courting Trouble. 

Trump Repeats False Claim About El Paso Crime, This Time in El Paso - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Trump Repeats False Claim About El Paso Crime, This Time in El PasoAdvertisementSupported byFact Check of the DayTrump Repeats False Claim About El Paso Crime, This Time in El PasoAt a rally in Texas, President Trump insisted that crime had fallen in El Paso because of a border wall. The data and the city’s Republican mayor disagree with him. ImageCreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesBy Linda QiuFeb. 12, 2019What was said“I’ve been hearing a lot of things: ‘Oh the wall didn’t make that much of a difference.’ You know where it made a big difference? Right here in El Paso.”False.Mr. Trump is repeating his widely debunked claim made in his State of the Union address that El Paso transformed from “one of the most dangerous cities” into one of the safest cities in the United States after the construction of barriers at the border.El Paso was never one of the most dangerous cities in the country. It has had a consistently lower crime rate than the average among more than 20 similarly sized cities, according to data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. In that group, El Paso reported the second-lowest violent crime rate in 2008 — before the construction of border fencing. And after the barrier was completed, it held the rank while the violent crime rate did not change considerably.The inaccurate claim has also drawn the rebuke of Democratic and Republican local politicians alike, including Beto O’Rourke, the former Democratic congressman from El Paso, and the Republican mayor of the city.“I don’t care if the mayor is a Democrat or a Republican, they are full of crap when they say the border barrier didn’t help lower the crime rate,” Mr. Trump said, again adding falsely, “It didn’t stay the same. It went way down.”What Was Said“If we cut detention space, we are cutting loose dangerous criminals into our country.”This is disputed.Before Mr. Trump took the stage, lawmakers in Washington reached a tentative deal on border security that included funding for physical barriers at the border and the reduction of detention space for migrants.Democrats had sought to limit the number of detention beds under the control of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, arguing that limiting the beds would force the agency to prioritize migrants with serious criminal records. Matt Albence, the deputy director of ICE, said a reduction in the number of beds would mean the release of criminals.Whether or not ICE would be forced to released hardened criminals is a prediction that cannot be fact checked, but available data suggests that most immigrants in detention have not committed serious crimes. Records obtained by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University show that in June 2018, for example, ICE held more than 44,000 migrants in detention facilities across the country. Of these migrants, 58 percent had no criminal conviction and 21 percent had committed minor offenses such as traffic violations or illegal entry while 18 percent had been convicted of serious crimes.ICE has disputed that breakdown but used a broader measure for its figures: The agency said 54 percent of detained immigrants had criminal records or faced pending charges, though it did not specify what crimes they were accused of committing.What was said“So we have, let’s say, 35,000 people tonight and he has 200 people, 300 people, not too good.”This is exaggerated.Mr. Trump overestimated his crowd size and severely understated the number of people who attended a dueling rally held Monday night by Beto O’Rourke, the former Democratic congressman.A spokesman with the fire department told the El Paso Times that the arena Mr. Trump spoke at was filled to capacity at 6,500 people. Thousands more watched the rally outside, with a possible total attendance of 10,000, the spokesman said, noting that the department did not officially estimate the crowd outside.Estimates for Mr. O’Rourke’s crowd have been far higher than 200 or 300, ranging from 7,000 to 15,000. What was said“I don’t think anybody in this room wants to pay 70, 80, 90 and 95 percent tax?”This is misleading.Several Democrats have introduced proposals to increase taxes, but unless the 6,500 people in the room were all among the wealthiest Americans, they would not be affected by these proposed tax hikes.Representative Alexandria Ocasio Cortez of New York, suggested a top marginal tax rate of 60 or 70 percent incomes over $10 million. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who is running for president, has proposed a wealth tax of 2 percent on people with a net worth above $50 million and 3 percent over $1 billion. And Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont proposed an a top estate tax rate of 77 percent on inheritances over $1 billion.For context, households in the top 5 percent earned an average income of $385,289 in 2017, according to the Census Bureau.What was said“I really don’t like their policy of taking away your car, of taking away your airplane flights, of let’s hop a train to California, of you’re not allowed to own cows anymore.”This is exaggerated.Mr. Trump was referring to the Green New Deal, a proposal to combat climate change released by Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts.In its current form, the plan is a broad outline, introduced as a nonbinding congressional resolution, and proposes projects like expanding renewable power sources, upgrading energy grids and buildings, working with farmers and ranchers to reform the agricultural sector, and investing in clean transportation and high speed rail. The legislation emphasizes that it intends to meet these goals “as much as is technologically feasible.”Though the Green New Deal would significantly alter the transportation and agriculture sectors, it does not call for the elimination of cars, airplanes or cows.Outside the text of the legislation, however, a blog post on Ms. Ocasio Cortez’s website describing the plan did note, “The Green New Deal sets a goal to get to net-zero, rather than zero emissions, at the end of this 10-year plan because we aren’t sure that we will be able to fully get rid of, for example, emissions from cows or air travel before then.”Her staff has since said retracted the post and said that it was incomplete and published by accident.What was said“You can keep your doctor — remember that? Twenty-eight times, that didn’t happen. Turned out to be a lie. Hey, where are the fact checkers?”This is misleading.When President Barack Obama encouraged lawmakers to pass the Affordable Care Act during his first term, he repeatedly promised that consumers would be able to keep their doctor or health care plan under the new insurance system.Contrary to Mr. Trump’s suggestions, fact checkers and news outlets have called out Mr. Obama for failing to fulfill that pledge. The Washington Post noted in 2009 that the claim “would not necessarily be true.” Factcheck.org wrote in 2009 that the promise would not apply to everyone. PolitiFact awarded Mr. Obama its Lie of the Year, its annual selection of the most egregious falsehood, in 2013. And The New York Times called it a “broken promise” in a 2013 article on the front page.OTHER CLAIMSIn addition, Mr. Trump repeated at least eight other claims The New York Times has previously checked:He exaggerated when he claimed that he had presided over an “economic miracle.” (The strong economy is a continuation of trends that began before Mr. Trump took office.) He falsely claimed that terminally ill patients could not get access to experimental drugs before he signed a “Right to Try” law. (A similar federal program had existed for decades before Mr. Trump signed the law last summer.) He claimed that the United States was “now the number one producer of oil and natural gas.” (This has been the case since 2013.) He misleadingly claimed that lawmakers had been trying to pass Veterans Choice for four decades. (Though Mr. Trump has presided over reforms to the program, Veterans Choice was signed into law under President Barack Obama.) He falsely claimed the government “couldn’t fire anybody” before he signed a Veterans Affairs Accountability Act. (He signed a law that would make it easier to remove bad employees, but the department had been able to fire people before.) He falsely accused Hillary Clinton and Democrats of colluding with Russia. (There is no evidence of this.) He claimed that immigration officials had made 266,000 arrests of unauthorized immigrants who had committed crimes like murder, sexual assault and kidnapping. (The most common offenses were immigration, traffic and drug violations.) He falsely claimed that only 2 percent of arrested unauthorized immigrants return for court hearings. (The accurate figure is about 72 percent.) Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email factcheck@nytimes.com Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.
@ylindaqiu A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: False Claim On El Paso, Repeated In El Paso. 

Opinion | Trump the Punisher - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Trump the PunisherAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump the PunisherIn politics, as in life, there are Fixers and there are Punishers. No question which the president is.By Michelle CottleMs. Cottle is a member of the editorial board. April 2, 2019Image CreditCreditMolly SneeOnce more, President Trump stands ready to dazzle with his willingness to sacrifice the national interest on the altar of his political whims.For days, the president has been indulging in one of his made-for-TV teasers by threatening to shut down the United States-Mexico border. Not beef up the Border Patrol. Not tighten security at ports of entry. Just hang up a “Closed” sign and call it a day.As the White House tells it, the failures of Mexico and congressional Democrats to stop illegal crossings have left the president no choice: The influx of drugs, criminals and other undesirables has reached the point where drastic action is required.Mr. Trump is nothing if not a man of drastic action, or at least ominous vows of drastic action.Dismayed critics have rushed to object that shutting the border will do nothing to solve the humanitarian strains caused by the flood of migrant families from Central America — that such a move will, in fact, make things only worse by disrupting the legal flow of people and commerce, wreaking social and economic havoc.Such warnings are spot on. They also miss the point. In threatening to shut down the border, Mr. Trump isn’t looking to solve a crisis. His primary aim is to make life unpleasant for those who have crossed him — or simply had the misfortune to get in his way.In politics, as in life, there are Fixers and there are Punishers. Fixers shine a light on problems or injustices and work to find ways to resolve them. Theirs is a constructive vision, one that values cooperation and pragmatism and getting stuff done.Punishers, too, are about spotlighting problems, a skill at which they may excel even more than Fixers. But Punishers aren’t looking to make things right so much as to find someone to blame — and chasten — for the perceived wrongs.Neither party holds a monopoly on either category. Charlie Baker, the Republican governor of Massachusetts, is a Fixer. Ilhan Omar, the freshman Democratic House member from Minnesota, is fast establishing herself as a Punisher. President Barack Obama was a Fixer, while the entire House Freedom Caucus sprang from the conviction that anyone willing to work with Mr. Obama should be cast into the abyss. Punished with extreme prejudice, as it were.Punishers have their charms and their purpose, and whether you see them as avenging angels or vengeful demagogues often depends on whether you share their particular worldview. But every now and again, along comes a Punisher so wanton that he rattles even members of his own team. Mr. Trump is one of this rare breed.The desire to crush those who displease him is a defining characteristic of this president. When challenged, his impulse is to lash out — preferably with personal, degrading insults. This has been on most vivid display with the myriad investigations into sketchy presidential behavior, but it also has been a hallmark of Mr. Trump’s approach to key policy issues. Border security, health care, trade — you name the debate, Mr. Trump’s answer is to stake out his position, vowing pain and regret for those who do not embrace it.On Sunday, the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, went on television to rub Democrats’ noses in the growing border tumult and defend the president’s closure threat. “We hate to say we told you so,” he said. “We need border security, and we’re going to do the best we can with what we have.”He also dismissed questions about the wisdom of Mr. Trump’s plan to end financial aid to El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. Complaining about the troubled nations’ failure to stop their people from fleeing north, Mr. Mulvaney brushed off administration experts who have cautioned that cutting aid would further destabilize the countries, likely worsening the migrant crisis.Translation: Fine. No one will give us a border wall. We’ll show you the meaning of chaos.The president’s fans cheer his pugilism, as though he was bravely defending himself — and them — against big, bad bullies. But all too often, the price is paid by the innocent and vulnerable: migrant children snatched from their parents at the border, federal workers thrown into financial turmoil by the government shutdown, farm workers and manufacturers caught up in the trade war, the millions of Americans who stand to lose their health insurance if the administration keeps laboring to kill Obamacare. For Mr. Trump, anyone who stands between him and his objective becomes collateral damage. And pity those considered part of an unfriendly demographic, such as the people of Puerto Rico, whom the president dismisses as a tool of the Democratic Party and mistreats accordingly. As the Senate has worked this week to hash out a comprehensive disaster-relief package, Mr. Trump’s contribution has been to fire off a series of obnoxious, dishonest tweets charging that “corrupt or incompetent” island officials have wasted epic levels of relief funding and are now hot for Democrats “to give them more, taking dollars away from our Farmers and so many others. Disgraceful!” A White House spokesman, Hogan Gidley, subsequently appeared on TV with a spirited defense of his boss’s broadside against “that country.” As for those who actively defy the president, the goal is not simply to punish them for a single transgression but to discourage them from future rebellions. Deliver a painful enough lesson, and everyone will fall into line. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump the Punisher. 

Alabama’s Gruesome Prisons: Report Finds Rape and Murder at All Hours - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexU.S.SubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperU.S.|Alabama’s Gruesome Prisons: Report Finds Rape and Murder at All HoursAdvertisementSupported byAlabama’s Gruesome Prisons: Report Finds Rape and Murder at All HoursImageThe segregation unit at Alabama’s St. Clair Correctional Facility houses inmates in solitary confinement. Many have come to see the unit as a haven from the prison’s general population.CreditCreditWilliam Widmer for The New York TimesBy Katie Benner and Shaila DewanApril 3, 2019One prisoner had been dead for so long that when he was discovered lying face down, his face was flattened. Another was tied up and tortured for two days while no one noticed. Bloody inmates screamed for help from cells whose doors did not lock.Those were some of the gruesome details in a 56-page report on the Alabama prison system that was issued by the Justice Department on Wednesday. The report, one of the first major civil rights investigations by the department to be released under President Trump, uncovered shocking conditions in the state’s massively overcrowded and understaffed facilities.Prisoners in the Alabama system endured some of the highest rates of homicide and rape in the country, the Justice Department found, and officials showed a “flagrant disregard” for their right to be free from excessive and cruel punishment. The investigation began in the waning days of the Obama administration and continued for more than two years after Mr. Trump took office. The department notified the prison system that it could sue in 49 days “if State officials have not satisfactorily addressed our concerns.”[The New York Times received more than 2,000 photos taken inside an Alabama prison. This is what they showed.]Alabama is not alone in having troubled, violent prisons. But the state has one of the country’s highest incarceration rates and its correctional system is notoriously antiquated, dangerous and short-staffed. The major prisons are at 182 percent of their capacity, the report found, contraband is rampant and prisoners sleep in dorms they are not assigned to in order to escape violence.“The violations are severe, systemic, and exacerbated by serious deficiencies in staffing and supervision,” the report said, noting that some facilities had fewer than 20 percent of their allotted positions filled. It also cited the use of solitary confinement as a protective measure for vulnerable inmates, and “a high level of violence that is too common, cruel, of an unusual nature, and pervasive.”State officials said the report addressed issues that Alabama was already aware of and working to fix.“For more than two years, the D.O.J. pursued an investigation of issues that have been the subject of ongoing litigation and the target of significant reforms by the state,” a statement from the office of Gov. Kay Ivey said. “Over the coming months, my Administration will be working closely with D.O.J. to ensure that our mutual concerns are addressed and that we remain steadfast in our commitment to public safety, making certain that this Alabama problem has an Alabama solution.”But the report called the state “deliberately indifferent” to the risks prisoners face, and said, “It has failed to correct known systemic deficiencies that contribute to the violence.” Legislative efforts to reduce overcrowding through measures such as reducing sentences were not made retroactive and have had “minimal effect,” the report said.Alabama’s prisons have for years been the subject of civil rights litigation by the Equal Justice Initiative and the Southern Poverty Law Center, nonprofit legal advocacy groups based in Montgomery. Maria Morris, the lead lawyer for the center’s lawsuit, also disputed the assertion that the problems were being fixed.“They’re not fixing them,” Ms. Morris said. “They’re giving a lot of lip service to the need to fix them, but the lip service always comes back to we just need a billion dollars to build new prisons and, as the Department of Justice found, that’s not going to solve the problem.”Alabama inmates continue to die in high numbers. There have been 15 suicides in the past 15 months, and the homicide rate vastly exceeds the national average for prisons.The Justice Department report focused on the failure to prevent prisoner-on-prisoner violence because of what it said was inadequate training, failure to properly classify and supervise inmates, and failure to stem the flow of contraband including weapons and drugs, among other problems.The department is still investigating excessive force and sexual abuse by prison staff members, an investigation that former federal prosecutors say could lead to criminal indictments.[Our reporter went inside St. Clair Correctional Facility in Springville, Ala. He found it was “virtually ungoverned” and the inmates were armed.]Investigators visited four prisons and interviewed more than 270 prisoners. To “provide a window into a broken system,” the report detailed a single week’s worth of injuries and attacks, including days that saw multiple incidents including stabbings, a sleeping man attacked with socks filled with metal locks and another man being forced to perform oral sex on two men at knife point.The department also concluded that the system does not provide “safe and sanitary” living conditions. Open sewage ran by the pathway that government lawyers used to access one facility, which the state closed soon after the visit. One investigator grew ill from the toxic fumes of cleaning fluids while inspecting the kitchen, the report said.The report said the state failed to track violent deaths or adequately investigate sex abuse. At least three homicide victims — including one who was stabbed and another who was beaten — were classified as having died from natural causes, the report said. The report listed nine killings in which the victims had been previously attacked or officials had received other warnings that they were in danger.Sexual assaults occur in “dormitories, cells, recreation areas, the infirmary, bathrooms, and showers at all hours of the day and night,” the report said. Prisons must screen inmates and separate sexually abusive prisoners from those at risk of sexual abuse, particularly gay and transgender people; the report said Alabama does not do so.Inmates are raped to pay off debts, and one mother told the Justice Department that a prisoner had texted her to say he would “chop her son into pieces and rape him if she did not send him $800,” the report said.Last month, Governor Ivey warned of “horrendous conditions” in the prisons and an impending federal intervention in her State of the State speech.Ms. Ivey said the department had increased the prison budget in recent years, given raises to corrections officers and requested $31 million to hire 500 more correctional officers and increase pay in the coming fiscal year.But Mac McArthur, the executive director of the Alabama State Employees Association, which includes state corrections workers, said attrition was still outpacing recruitment, in part because starting salaries were still below $30,000 a year for some officers, and in part because the job was so dangerous.The federal investigation was opened during the Obama administration, after the lawsuits over prison abuses and published accounts of endemic brutality, violence and torture. The investigation continued under former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who had also served as a longtime senator from Alabama.The report included a series of measures necessary to remedy the constitutional and other violations that regularly occur in the Alabama prison system, including additional screening for those entering the prisons, moving low-risk inmates, hiring 500 additional corrections officers and overhauling disciplinary processes around violence and sexual assault.Similar federal civil rights investigations have resulted in consent decrees — court-approved deals that include a road map of changes that institutions such as police departments and state correction departments must adhere to in order to avoid being sued.But in a break with past practice, Mr. Sessions placed three key restrictions on consent decrees. He said that a top political appointee must sign off on any deal. Department lawyers must show proof of violations that go beyond unconstitutional behavior. And the deals must have a sunset date, meaning they can expire before violations have been remedied. The current attorney general, William P. Barr, has not changed Mr. Sessions’s policy.Mr. Sessions said that the consent decrees interfered with states’ rights, a position echoed by Ms. Ivey in her statement insisting on an “Alabama solution.”But Vanita Gupta, a head of the civil rights division in the Obama administration and one of the officials who opened the investigation, said that given the pervasive problems and the history of inaction, “nothing short of a comprehensive consent decree will adequately address these constitutional violations.”The Justice Department declined to comment on whether it would seek a consent decree.Ms. Ivey is hardly the first governor to reckon with the prison system and its decrepit conditions. Her immediate predecessor, Robert Bentley, pushed a plan for $800 million in bonds to build four new prisons and to close some existing facilities.But governors have only so much influence in Alabama, and the Legislature balked, especially as a scandal left Mr. Bentley weakened. This year, Ms. Ivey proposed a similar plan for new prisons that state officials hoped would be ready by 2022.Alan Blinder contributed reporting. Follow Katie Benner and Shaila Dewan on Twitter: @ktbenner and @shailadewan.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: ‘Common, Cruel’ Violence Met by Indifference. 

Opinion | The Mick Mulvaney Presidency - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|The Mick Mulvaney PresidencyAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Mick Mulvaney PresidencyHow an imaginary version of the Trump administration might make the real one lose in 2020.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistMarch 30, 2019ImageThe acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, center, with President Trump and Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan in Florida on March 22.CreditCreditCarolyn Kaster/Associated PressThis should have been one of the best weeks of Donald Trump’s presidency — a week when the shadow of impeachment lifted, when his fiercest critics were dramatically wrong-footed, when the NO COLLUSION! tweets suddenly came with a certified-by-Robert-Mueller stamp.But the rule of the Trump administration is that even political victories must be followed by egregious acts of self-sabotage. And so it was that the White House took the opportunity afforded by the Mueller investigation’s wrap-up to back a lawsuit against Obamacare that even the health care law’s conservative critics believe is frivolous, reviving a debate that tanked Trump’s approval rating during 2017’s repeal-and-replace debacle, and that no Republican of consequence wants to reopen today.Then just to add an extra self-inflicted wound, the administration this week also endorsed defunding the Special Olympics — a position that lasted all of 48 hours before Trump reversed it, blaming “my people” rather than himself.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]What unites both of these blunders, apart from simple political stupidity, is that neither has much to do with actual policymaking. There is little chance that John Roberts, having declined to do away with Obamacare when the law faced a reasonable constitutional challenge, will rule in favor of a more implausible attack. There is zero chance that the Special Olympics will be defunded; the budget that imagined doing so was a symbolic statement that gets ignored by Congress every year.So why revive the Obamacare debate? Why set yourself up for “Trump Defunds Special Olympics” headlines? The answer is that there are effectively two Trump presidencies. One offers something like what the president promised on the campaign trail — a break with Paul Ryan’s green-eyeshade approach to entitlement reform, a more moderate tack on health care, an indifference to Obama-era conservative orthodoxies on fiscal and monetary policy.The other offers a continuation of the Tea Party’s insistence on spending cuts and Obamacare repeal, and appropriately its present leader is a former Tea Party congressman — Mick Mulvaney, the Zelig of the administration, whose zeal is apparently the main reason that the Obamacare lawsuit now has administration support.The first presidency is mostly real; the second presidency has been mostly imaginary ever since the failure of Obamacare repeal left Ryanism neutered. Trump hasn’t done some of the biggest heterodox things he promised (an infrastructure bill, most notably). But he has ended austerity budgeting, ignored entitlement reform, reformed Obamacare around the edges while leaving its coverage guarantee intact, embraced protectionism and jawboned the Federal Reserve to be more inflationary.At the same time, though, he has relied on personnel who are associated with 2010-era G.O.P. orthodoxy, rather than elevating the kind of conservatives who have actively theorized for a more populist right. Trump's choice of Steve Moore to the Federal Reserve is a recent case study: Instead of elevating a principled inflation dove (National Review editor and Bloomberg columnist Ramesh Ponnuru would have been my outside-the-box choice), Trump picked a hack who was obsessed with imaginary inflation under Obama, and only flipped to back a looser monetary policy because, well, it was the Trumpy thing to do.But at least with Moore, Trump is getting someone whose official views now line up with his administration’s political interests. With Mulvaney he has something stranger: A subordinate who plays let’s-pretend-to-be-the-Tea-Party whenever he gets the chance, limning an essentially fictional version of the Trump presidency in budget documents and pushing the president to publicly back forays like the Obamacare lawsuit that have little chance of changing anything.You could describe the cut-the-Special-Olympics budgets and anti-Obamacare efforts as just classic Republican hypocrisy, the tribute that big-spending vice plays to small-government virtue. But Trump campaigned in 2016 as the guy who would get rid of this charade, who would actually identify as a free-spending populist rather than a movement conservative, who would enable the G.O.P. to be a “worker’s party” in its self-conception rather than just in its compromises with political reality.Instead, thanks to his “people” and his own rhetorical shifts, he’s ended up in a weirder position. The Trump record would justify, within limits, campaigning in 2020 the way he did in 2016, claiming to have governed as a populist rather than a Ryanist — taking credit for reforming Obamacare rather than eliminating it, taking credit for Congress’s guns-and-butter budgets and all the popular spending they contain.But right now Trump is letting the mostly-imaginary version of his presidency, the Mulvaney version, define his priorities and public rhetoric. Which makes him look like a guy who didn’t keep his promises, who promised to be a different kind of Republican and then kept trying to defund the Special Olympians and throw people off their health care coverage.That’s the most unpopular version of Trumpism, which is saying something. And his chances in 2020 will turn, in part, on whether he realizes it. His real economic record, however haphazard and under-theorized, could still win him re-election. The Mulvaney fantasia guarantees defeat.RelatedOpinion | Jamelle Bouie: An Opening for the DemocratsMarch 29, 2019Opinion | Paul Krugman: G.O.P. Cruelty Is a Pre-existing ConditionMarch 28, 2019Trump Sided With Mulvaney in Push to Nullify Health LawMarch 27, 2019Opinion | Nicholas Bagley: Why Trump’s New Push to Kill Obamacare Is So AlarmingMarch 27, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:
@DouthatNYT A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR13 of the New York edition with the headline: The Mick Mulvaney Presidency. 

Opinion | Build Central America, Not a Wall - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Build Central America, Not a WallAdvertisementOpinionSupported byBuild Central America, Not a WallHelp fix these broken countries so fleeing north won’t seem so urgent.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 25, 2019ImageCreditCreditJeremy LeungAs thousands of families fleeing violence, poverty and oppression in Central America arrive at the American border, the Trump administration has responded by separating children and parents and cracking down on asylum claims.A more humane, and effective, response would be to address the sources of the desperation that propelled these people north. President Trump chose on Monday to reaffirm his punitive bent, complaining about the exodus of migrants and saying he told the leaders of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, whose countries receive millions of dollars in annual aid, “We’re not sending it anymore.” But what if the United States truly prioritized helping these nations?Plagued by corruption, violence and gang terror, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras need stronger and more honest judges and police officers, better schools and economic development. Elites control much of the land and avoid taxes, even at some of the lowest tax rates in Latin America. Bribery is rampant, and too often leaders lack the interest, competence or will to manage such problems. Over the years, the United States has contributed to instability by supporting autocrats in civil wars and tolerating corruption that has bred criminality. In 2017, Washington recognized the results of the Honduran presidential election days after the Organization of American States called for new elections because of voting irregularities.The United States has also invested in Latin America for decades to promote democracy and economic and social development. But the Trump administration has begun to place “more emphasis on preventing illegal immigration, combating transnational crime and generating export and investment opportunities for U.S. businesses,” according to a report last month by the Congressional Research Service, which does nonpartisan research for Congress.While the administration has tried to scale back aid, Congress has resisted, appropriating $2.1 billion for the region from 2016 to 2018, roughly double what had previously been allocated.Results are mixed: While murder rates in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras declined in 2018, they are still very high, fueled by the trafficking of 90 percent of the cocaine bound for the United States. Economic growth has been steady since 2014, but poverty rates are relatively unchanged. While officials have pursued criminal cases involving presidents and other leaders, opposition from political and economic interests threatens to upend their work.But there are reasons for hope: A 2014 study found that community-based programs to reduce crime and violence in Central America, run by the United States Agency for International Development, reported 19 percent fewer robberies and 51 percent fewer murders. Other programs, also funded mainly through U.S.A.I.D. and the State Department, help vet police officers, get them to work more closely with communities, identify youth prone to violence and work to change their behavior. Prosecutors and judges are being given training and technical assistance on managing cases and gathering evidence; journalists, activists and civil society groups are being counseled in how to protect themselves from threats. Other programs seek to make the civil service more professional, help subsistence farmers diversify their crops and increase yields and connect regional electric grids.`Eradicating gangs, which drive much of the northward migration, is especially difficult. The International Crisis Group has warned that mass deportations from the United States risk fueling gang violence unless accompanied by serious economic investment in impoverished communities. Just subjecting gang members to harsh prisons and branding them terrorists has backfired, the group said.In the end, it is Central American leaders who must carry out reforms. They are more apt to do that with international support. But America can slow the exodus of the desperate by investing in democracy, judicial reform and economic growth. So far, Mr. Trump has shown little interest.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Build Central America, Not a Wall. 

Jeffrey Hart, Influential and Iconoclastic Conservative, Is Dead at 88 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexObituariesSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperObituaries|Jeffrey Hart, Influential and Iconoclastic Conservative, Is Dead at 88AdvertisementSupported byJeffrey Hart, Influential and Iconoclastic Conservative, Is Dead at 88ImageJeffrey Hart was a Dartmouth professor, speechwriter for Republicans and a conservative voice but defected to the Democrats largely because of the war in Iraq.CreditCreditBettmann/Getty ImagesBy Sam RobertsFeb. 20, 2019Jeffrey Hart, a defiant defender of the Western literary canon and a profusely credentialed but contrarian conservative who bolted the Republican Party to support John Kerry and Barack Obama for president, died on Sunday in Fairlee, Vt. He was 88.The cause was complications of dementia, his wife, Nancy Hart, said.Professor Hart, who taught English literature at Dartmouth for three decades, drafted speeches for Ronald Reagan and Richard M. Nixon when they were presidential candidates; wrote copiously for William F. Buckley Jr.’s National Review, where he was also a senior editor; and was the author of books and a syndicated column.He was also what Christopher Buckley, William’s son, called a Pied Piper for The Dartmouth Review, the acerbic, decidedly conservative, often inflammatory journal (not affiliated with the university) founded in Professor Hart’s living room in 1980 by four students, including his son, Ben. The Review became a proving ground for such vocal conservatives as the author Dinesh D’Souza and the talk-show host Laura Ingraham.“Jeff Hart was one of the most influential conservative writers for approaching half a century,” Jack Fowler, the vice president of National Review, said in an email.Professor Hart defected to the Democrats largely because of the war in Iraq, which he branded as “the greatest strategic blunder in American history.”Claims by the Bush administration that the Iraqis were stockpiling weapons of mass destruction proved to be “dishonest,” he said, and without a strongman like Saddam Hussein, rivalry between religious sects rendered the region ungovernable.Professor Hart was an iconoclastic conservative — some would say a political apostate — who supported stem cell research and criticized the Republican platform on the environment. He considered the crusade to reverse the Supreme Court’s decision to legalize abortion as impractical. “It is a very peculiar kind of conservatism that values life only in utero,” he said.Professor Hart liked to flaunt his nonconformity, commuting to campus in a gas-guzzling Cadillac limousine that occupied two parking spaces; sporting an ankle-length raccoon coat at campus football games; coupling a meerschaum pipe with lumberjack boots and a Budweiser tie; seeking to restore the school’s American Indian symbol (Dartmouth was chartered in part to educate children of Indian tribes); and wearing mischievously provocative political buttons from his collection, like one that exhorted, “Soak the Poor.”When his nomination to the National Council on the Humanities was briefly jeopardized in the Senate because of his controversial remarks, Professor Hart insisted that “no evidence exists as regards my academic record that I harbor any prejudice against minorities or women.”He did not duck controversy, though. He said he had no objection to integrating black studies into college curriculums but balked at establishing separate departments in that field.In a magazine review, he wrote that “liberal rote anathema on ‘racism’ is in effect a poisonous assault upon Western self-preference.” And in a 1997 interview, he described the end of apartheid in South Africa as a tribal transformation. “You have got a black tribe running the place with probably foreseeable results,” he said.Fellow conservatives attributed his defection to Mr. Obama to Professor Hart’s defeat in philosophical conflicts within the movement.But Professor Hart replied that President George W. Bush had been guilty of a radical populism that defied the spirit of Edmund Burke’s classic 18th-century conservatism.Image“The Making of the American Conservative Mind: National Review and Its Times” by Jeffrey Hart.“The opinion we are getting from so-called conservatives today is not fact-based,” he told The Dartmouth Review in 2008. “It’s a projection of their wishes.”Jeffrey Peter Hart was born on Feb. 24, 1930, in Brooklyn to Clifford and Gladys (Reith) Hart. His mother was a musician, his father an architect.After graduating from Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan, he enrolled at Dartmouth College planning to continue to its medical school. But within two years he found that he was more engaged by literature and so dropped out, returning to New York to work for a book publisher.After a year he enrolled in Columbia University, where he studied literature under Lionel Trilling, Mark Van Doren and Jacques Barzun, and graduated with a bachelor’s degree in 1952.Mr. Hart enlisted in the Navy during the Korean War and served in Naval Intelligence before returning to Columbia to earn a doctorate in 17th- and 18th-century English literature. He soon began writing book reviews for National Review — a political affiliation that Trilling suggested might jeopardize his prospects for tenure at Columbia.That concern was mooted when he was recruited by Dartmouth in 1963. He taught there until his retirement in 1993.Professor Hart’s books include “When the Going Was Good! American Life in the Fifties” (1982); “Smiling Through the Cultural Catastrophe: Toward the Revival of Higher Education” (2001); and “The Making of the American Conservative Mind: National Review and its Times” (2005).His marriage to Stephanie Woods in 1953 ended in divorce in 1981. In addition to their son Benjamin, he is survived by their children, Matthew and Emily Hart and Rosemary Carroll; six grandchildren; and his wife, Nancy Killheffer, whom he married in 1984.Born into the Episcopal Church, he converted to Catholicism, explaining his decision by remarking, as his son Ben recalled, “If you’re going to be a Christian, you might as well be on the A team, not the B or C team.”Professor Hart wasn’t doctrinaire. He was fiercely anti-Communist, but as a child of the New Deal he believed in government’s responsibility to provide regulation and a safety net.He didn’t mince words, even when skewering fellow conservatives. By 2006, he was flatly proclaiming George W. Bush the worst American president. He demeaned Senator John McCain’s foreign policy credentials (“He bombed North Vietnam, and the only North Vietnamese he saw was when he was in prison; I don’t see that as, you know, war experience”) and pronounced Sarah Palin, Mr. McCain’s running mate in 2008, “extremely ignorant” and a “religious crackpot.”In that election, Professor Hart voted for Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain’s Democratic opponent, and supported him again in 2012. In 2004, opposing Mr. Bush’s re-election, he had voted for the Democratic challenger, Mr. Kerry. (He was too ill to vote in 2016.)Professor Hart explained his personal politics in an interview with the cultural critic James Panero in 2006 in the Dartmouth Alumni Magazine.“My conservatism is aristocratic in spirit, anti-populist and rooted in the Northeast,” he said. “It is Burke brought up-to-date. A ‘social conservative’ in my view is not a moral authoritarian Evangelical who wants to push people around, but an American gentleman, conservative in a social sense. He has gone to a good school, maybe shops at J. Press, maybe plays tennis or golf, and drinks either Bombay or Beefeater martinis, or maybe Dewar’s on the rocks, or both.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Jeffrey Hart, Influential and Iconoclastic Conservative, Is Dead at 88. 

Trump Administration, Getting Set for a Major Rollback, Ends Clean Air Talks With California - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexClimateSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperClimate|Trump Administration, Getting Set for a Major Rollback, Ends Clean Air Talks With CaliforniaAdvertisementSupported byTrump Administration, Getting Set for a Major Rollback, Ends Clean Air Talks With CaliforniaImageThe Trump administration has said it would challenge the right of California to set its own emissions rules if negotiations failed.CreditCreditDavid Paul Morris/BloombergBy Lisa Friedman and Hiroko TabuchiFeb. 21, 2019Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The Trump administration, setting the stage to move forward with one of its most consequential climate-policy rollbacks, announced Thursday that it had decided to scrap negotiations with California over the president’s plan to undo Obama-era fuel efficiency standards for cars and light trucks.The move makes a protracted legal battle almost certain. At the heart of the talks was California’s longstanding right to opt out of national auto emissions rules and set its own tailpipe standards. State officials have vowed to sue to protect that authority if the administration tries to impose weaker federal standards on California and the dozen states that follow its lead.Xavier Becerra, the California attorney general, said Thursday the state was “prepared to defend our national Clean Car standards even if the Trump administration intends to go AWOL.”Under rules established by President Barack Obama’s administration to cut planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions from tailpipes, national fuel economy standards would nearly double by 2025. The Trump administration said in August that it intended to freeze that measure after 2021, when new cars must average around 30 miles a gallon. It also said it would challenge the right of California and the states that follow its lead to set their own rules.There appears to have been very little movement in the negotiations since they began almost a year ago, and both sides on Thursday accused the other of negotiating in bad faith.“Despite the administration’s best efforts to reach a common-sense solution, it is time to acknowledge that CARB has failed to put forward a productive alternative,” a White House statement said, referring to the California Air Resources Board, the state’s clean air regulator. “Accordingly, the administration is moving forward to finalize a rule later this year with the goal of promoting safer, cleaner and more affordable vehicles.”Stanley Young, a spokesman for the air resources board, said meetings between the sides had been held but “were always at a superficial level, with no effort to engage in a conversation.”Why can California set its own rules?U.S. Climate Change Policy: Made in CaliforniaSept. 27, 2017Mandy Gunasekara, who served as principal deputy assistant administrator in the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Air and Radiation before leaving this month to start a private consulting business, and who was involved in the talks, said that California had put forward only one counterproposal: a plan to delay implementation of the fuel economy rules by one year. Trump officials saw that as a nonstarter.“Looking at it now, it seems they were more interested in stalling the progress of the conversation than actually working to make a deal,” Ms. Gunasekara said.The decision to abandon talks does not necessarily mean that a final proposal from the administration is imminent. The E.P.A. had planned to complete the rollback proposal by the end of March, but the partial government shutdown early this year set that target back to May or June, agency officials said.Automakers, who fear that competing rules will bring chaos to the domestic auto industry, called for continued talks.“We continue to believe there is a middle-ground solution that supports the goals of the administration, state of California, as well as automakers,” said John Bozzella, chief executive of Global Automakers, which represents automakers and parts suppliers with operations in the United States.“We always knew achieving one national program would be challenging,” said Gloria Bergquist, a vice president at the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which represents the country’s biggest automakers. But a compromise “is worth striving for,” she said. “We encourage everyone to keep focusing on how we get there.”The announcement comes amid fast-deteriorating relations between Washington and California.In recent weeks the Trump administration has said it was terminating a $929 million federal grant for the state’s struggling high-speed rail project, and the Transportation Department said it was exploring legal options to claw back $2.5 billion that had already been spent. President Trump has also threatened to cut off federal funding for wildfire relief after devastating blazes that killed 89 people.Mr. Trump also lashed out on Twitter when 16 states sued over his decision to declare a national emergency in order to obtain funding for a border wall, writing that California, “the state that has wasted billions of dollars on their out of control Fast Train, with no hope of completion, seems in charge!”Lisa Friedman reported from Washington and Hiroko Tabuchi from New York.For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.
@LFFriedman Hiroko Tabuchi is a climate reporter. She joined The Times in 2008, and was part of the team awarded the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting. She previously wrote about Japanese economics, business and technology from Tokyo.
@HirokoTabuchi • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Administration Ends Clean Air Talks With California. 

Opinion | Trump’s Dangerous Obsession With the Markets - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Trump’s Dangerous Obsession With the MarketsAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump’s Dangerous Obsession With the MarketsThe president is not only reading the markets as a daily measure of his success, he is also shaping policy to keep prices high. By Ruchir SharmaMr. Sharma, the author of “The Rise and Fall of Nations: Forces of Change in the Post-Crisis World,” is a contributing opinion writer.April 9, 2019ImagePresident Donald Trump on a computer on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in December.CreditCreditSeth Wenig/Associated PressFrom Day 1 in the Oval Office, President Trump has shown a unique obsession with the financial markets, tweeting that high stock prices proved he was making America great again. But a new chapter opened in October, when the markets dropped sharply, and Mr. Trump began making critical presidential decisions with an eye to pushing stock prices back up.As soon as the markets turned downward, Mr. Trump softened his hard line on Chinese trade practices, trying to quiet market fears that his tariff threats against Beijing would start a global trade war. Then he started attacking the United States Federal Reserve, saying its interest rate policies were undermining stock prices, and followed with rants about firing the chairman of the Fed, Jerome Powell. And last week, Axios quoted a source who had spoken to Mr. Trump as saying that the president had delayed his threat to close the Mexico border out of concern over how the markets would react.For Mr. Trump to base serious decisions about trade, monetary policy and immigration on market mood swings ensures that the zany uncertainty of his tenure will continue to reach new heights.Mr. Trump’s sudden moderation on China was particularly striking because, in an otherwise mercurial career, he had remained consistent on trade. Going back to the 1980s, Mr. Trump has been accusing Asian competitors in particular of using unfair trade deals to steal America’s lunch.Moreover, Mr. Trump has been drawing broad support for his hard line on trade with China, even among his critics in Congress and in Europe. Many of them agreed that China was using state power to dominate the global information technology industry, exclude American companies from its domestic market and steal intellectual property. They were openly rooting for Mr. Trump to win on this issue, and to cut a tough deal.Yet when the markets fell on fear of a United States-China trade war, Mr. Trump began to retreat. After taking office, his tweets on China attacked it for militarism, currency manipulation and unfair trade practices right up until the markets dropped in October. Mr. Trump’s first conciliatory tweet came on Nov. 1, describing a pleasant chat about trade with President Xi Jinping, and he has been talking up their “incredible relationship” and progress in trade talks since.By last month, amid reports that Trump advisers were calculating how big of a “stock market pop” they could expect from a trade deal, Washington insiders from both parties were worrying aloud that the president might accept any deal China would sign.Mr. Trump, meanwhile, was executing a similar about-face on the Fed. As a candidate, he had attacked the central bank for keeping rates so low and inflating “a big fat ugly bubble” in the markets. Once he took office, Mr. Trump stopped tweeting attacks on the Fed, until November, when he began to blame the central bank for dampening market spirits with high interest rates. In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has not only fulminated about replacing Mr. Powell, he has also started considering market-friendly loyalists for seats on the Fed board of governors.Mr. Trump’s most recent market-driven U-turn appears to have come on immigration, another subject near and dear to him. So far, the stock markets have not reacted negatively to his aggressive efforts to secure funding for a border wall, including the government shutdown and the declaration of a national emergency. Nonetheless, when Mr. Trump backed off on his threat to close the southern border, the Axios source explained the president’s decision this way: “It’s the markets. Closing the border, the markets would plummet.”No president has shown this kind of deference. Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and both Bushes mentioned the stock markets rarely and cautiously. Bill Clinton counseled against responding to their gyrations. In early 2009, Barack Obama suggested it was a good time to buy battered American stocks and was proved right when the markets hit bottom a week later. But Mr. Obama was criticized for acting as “stock picker in chief” and did not talk about stock prices again as president.Mr. Trump is not only reading the markets as a daily measure of his success, he is also shaping policy to keep prices high. And recent market rises have rewarded him for it. After Mr. Trump turned conciliatory on China, the Fed announced it was suspending further rate increases, and stocks began climbing back toward record highs.So who’s in charge: Mr. Trump or the markets? One critical test is the United States-China trade talks, which are set to wrap up soon in a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi. A tough agreement would help confirm that markets aren’t completely dictating policy.Even then, Mr. Trump’s willingness to bend policy to please the markets is now clear — and it’s risky. In recent years the stock markets have grown larger than the economy, and they are now big enough to take the economy down with them when they deflate. Policymakers are wary of poking this beast, but feeding it will only make the markets larger and more demanding.Ruchir Sharma, a contributing opinion writer, is chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley Investment Management.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump’s Dangerous Markets Obsession. 

What’s at Risk if the Fed Becomes as Partisan as the Rest of Washington - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperThe Upshot|What’s at Risk if the Fed Becomes as Partisan as the Rest of WashingtonAdvertisementUpshotSupported byWhat’s at Risk if the Fed Becomes as Partisan as the Rest of WashingtonThe credibility of the Federal Reserve around the world has been built over decades. By Neil IrwinApril 6, 2019ImageStephen Moore founded the Club for Growth, which supports conservative candidates for office.CreditTom Williams/CQ Roll CallImageHerman Cain, a former pizza executive, sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2012.CreditCarolyn Kaster/Associated PressPoliticians have had strong opinions on what the Federal Reserve should and shouldn’t do throughout its 105-year history.They have pushed for lower interest rates and easier money, or for this or that policy on bank regulation or consumer protection. They have summoned Fed leaders to the White House or Congress to persuade and cajole.In that sense, there is nothing new in President Trump’s aggressive approach to the Fed. This week, he called for lower interest rates and new quantitative easing, and he signaled an intention to appoint two vocal supporters, Stephen Moore and Herman Cain, to the board of governors.What makes Mr. Trump’s approach to the Fed so unusual is that he has repeatedly, publicly undermined a Fed chief he appointed (Jerome Powell), and, if successful, he would put two officials with a background in partisan politics in the inner sanctum of Fed policymaking. (Mr. Moore was founder of the Club for Growth, which supports conservative candidates for office, and Mr. Cain ran for president.)“It’s more overtly political than anything we’ve seen since at least the ’80s, and historically when we’ve had political appointments and interventions in the Fed, there have been unintended consequences that last,” said Julia Coronado, president of MacroPolicy Perspectives and a former Fed staffer. “It may be expedient in the near term, but what’s good for the next year or two may not be good for the next decade.”All presidential appointees to the Fed’s board of governors come with their own political point of view, which generally dovetails with the president who appointed them. But typically they have also brought deep technical expertise and an inclination to keep political dimensions out of Fed debates.“People around the table did have political views, and I did, too,” said Alan Blinder, who was appointed vice chairman of the Fed by President Bill Clinton and is more recently the author of “Advice and Dissent,” about the role of politicians versus technocrats in shaping policy. “But you weren’t supposed to bring them into the room when it was time to make a decision, and people didn’t.”That is the tradition that Mr. Trump’s approach endangers.You can read thousands of pages of transcripts of closed-door Fed policy meetings without seeing a reference to the political jockeying that occupies the rest of Washington.Three times in recent decades, a president has reappointed a Fed chairman first named by a president of the opposite party (Ronald Reagan with Paul Volcker, Mr. Clinton with Alan Greenspan and Barack Obama with Ben Bernanke).You will see no political bumper stickers in the underground parking garage. When Dan Tarullo, an Obama campaign veteran and a banking expert, was named a governor in 2009, there was some tut-tutting among staff that he initially left his sticker on.In effect, the risk is that the Fed becomes yet another partisan battlefield, as is already often the case with the Supreme Court nomination process, congressional intelligence oversight committees and regulators like the Federal Communications Commission.In the immediate future, this probably wouldn’t mean much for policy. If nominated and confirmed, Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain would hold two of 12 votes on the Federal Open Market Committee. Their ability to sway the Fed toward Mr. Trump’s desired interest rate cuts and a new round of quantitative easing would depend on their ability to persuade their new colleagues.“It will be their task to convince the others that their way of thinking about monetary policy will improve the Fed’s ability to meet its legislative mandates for maximum employment and stable prices,” said Don Kohn, a former Fed vice chairman who was appointed by George W. Bush. “That will require solid economic analysis backed up by research.”The risk of more overt political divisions within the Fed would come over time, if the Fed came to be seen as basing decisions on the political impulses of appointees rather than on sound economic analysis.The United States’ role as the global reserve currency — which results in persistently low interest rates and little fear of capital flight — is built in significant part on the credibility the Fed has accumulated over decades.During the global financial crisis and its aftermath, for example, the Fed could feel comfortable pursuing efforts to stimulate the United States economy without a loss of faith in the dollar and Treasury bonds by global investors. The dollar actually rose against other currencies even as the economy was in free fall in late 2008, and the Fed deployed trillions of dollars in unconventional programs to try to stop the crisis.The Fed Claims to Be Independent. That’s Mostly a Myth.Oct. 19, 2017The hazards of a more politicized Fed are evident from the experience of the early 1970s, when Richard Nixon used both political pressure and underhanded tactics to try to push the Fed chairman, Arthur Burns, to keep interest rates low heading into the 1972 election.Among other things, the White House leaked a false story that Mr. Burns sought a large pay raise at a time the Fed was pressuring employers not to increase wages to fight inflation.Mr. Burns and the Fed followed the president’s wishes, and Mr. Nixon won re-election handily in 1972, amid a booming economy. But it was in those years that inflationary pressures were building in the economy, and within a few years the rate of inflation reached double digits.No one would argue that the Fed is divorced from politics. It is constantly making decisions that pit the interests of workers against owners of capital, and those of banks against those of consumers. But there is a difference between acknowledging that there are choices that must be informed by political values and putting those political values ahead of what are often highly technical discussions.In Senate confirmation hearings, would Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain adopt the cautious, careful language typical of central bankers — or embrace a role as partisan warriors? The safest bet is that investors around the world will be watching carefully for hints of just how politicized the Fed of the future will turn out to be.Neil Irwin is a senior economics correspondent for The Upshot. He previously wrote for The Washington Post and is the author of “The Alchemists: Three Central Bankers and a World on Fire.”
@Neil_Irwin • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s on the Line if the Fed Becomes a Partisan Battlefield. 

Opinion | The Biden Sort-Of Lovefest - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Biden Sort-Of LovefestAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Biden Sort-Of LovefestIf you don’t want to vote for him, at least buy a mug.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistApril 3, 2019ImageJoe Biden in December in Manhattan.CreditCreditKrista Schlueter for The New York TimesOne of the great political themes of the Democratic presidential campaign is how much everybody loves Joe Biden.Really. Just Google “I love Joe Biden.” Go past the T-shirts and memorial coffee cups and you’ll see a ton of stuff.“I love Joe Biden. He’s a great guy and a great politician,” said Jerry Shriner, a Democratic National Committee member from Idaho, when the question of a Biden return came up. “I wish he were the president right now. But I’m not sure I wish he is president in 2021.”“I love Joe Biden. I really do,” said Tom Courtney, a Democratic leader in Iowa. “But there comes a moment when it’s time to not run.”In the past, whenever Biden has tried to run for president, things didn’t go well. In part it’s been because of his tendency to sound … goofy. In 2007, he described one of his opponents, Barack Obama, as the “first mainstream African-American who is articulate and bright and clean and a nice-looking guy.”He didn’t mean it the way it sounded, but he still finished fifth in the Iowa caucuses. He dropped out and became vice president. When asked about Biden as a possible successor, Obama just said, “I love Joe Biden.”Now, Biden seems ready to give it one more shot. He hasn’t announced yet, but he’s ahead in the polls. And thrashing around in the controversy over his longstanding habit of affectionately putting his hands all over women he meets.“Social norms are changing,” said the former vice president via Twitter. It was not quite an apology. More like: “O.K., O.K. I’ll do it another way.”Well, remember that old movie line about how love means never having to say you’re sorry?On Wednesday, Biden sent out a video promising the world he’d be “more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space.” It was a pretty good presentation. He managed to look fairly normal, all things considered. When you’ve spent a week being savaged for old-uncle-creepiness, it’s easy to get a little self-conscious.“I worked my whole life to empower women,” he told the camera “ … so the idea that I can’t adjust to the fact that personal space is important, more important than it’s ever been, is just not thinkable. I will. I will.”Two problems here. One is that Biden is acting as though the whole don’t-touch business is a brand-new product of the #MeToo movement. That a person in his position could have accidentally missed the message until recently.Let’s go back to 2006. At a G-8 summit in Russia, President George W. Bush came up behind German leader Angela Merkel and inflicted a quick back rub. Merkel appeared … grossed out. The picture went around the world. Comedians had a field day. Hard to believe a powerful U.S. senator with an expertise in foreign affairs could have missed the story.A few months earlier, New Mexico Lt. Gov. Diane Denish had told a reporter she tried to avoid being around the governor, Bill Richardson, because “He pokes me. He pinches my neck. He touches my hip, my thigh, sort of the side of my leg.” Like Biden, Richardson was a Democratic presidential hopeful.People were talking about it a lot. “Have our leaders gone mad?” demanded a Times writer, who traced the new touchy-feely trend to political consultants like Republican Frank Luntz, who were trying to create more human interaction between their clients and the public.Luntz was indeed encouraging his clients to go beyond the traditional handshake when it came to making contact. These days, he’s still consulting but he’s pretty clear that times have changed. “What used to be seen as a demonstration of endearment is now seen as invasion of space,” he said in a phone interview. Nevertheless, he loves Joe Biden. (“One of the warmest people I’ve ever met.”)Second problem with Biden’s video pitch. He has indeed worked to empower women — he was an author of the Violence Against Women Act. But he also has that really nasty history on the Anita Hill matter. Hill had the courage to show up and testify before the world about Clarence Thomas’s lecherous behavior as a boss. This was in 1991, when no one ever talked about that stuff in public. And Biden, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, did nothing but ask her embarrassing questions. (“Were you uncomfortable, were you embarrassed, did it not concern you?”)He’s been trying to make amends, without really taking responsibility. (“I am so sorry if she believes that … I am so sorry that she had to go through what she went through.”)Maybe that’s why he made a particular point of lacing into Donald Trump’s history of grabbing women’s private parts. Last year Biden told some college students that if only he and Trump were in high school together, “I’d take him behind the gym and beat the hell out of him.”At the time, I wrote a column about the inadvisability of advocating an assault on the president, even in the past tense. And the next day Biden called up to say thanks “for showing me what a jerk I was.”See, this is the reason people keep saying they love Joe Biden. Right before they say they hope he doesn’t run for president.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist and a former member of the editorial board, and was the first woman to serve as the Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.
@GailCollins • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: The Biden Sort-Of Lovefest. 

Opinion | The Wrong Time for Joe Biden - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Wrong Time for Joe BidenAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Wrong Time for Joe BidenHe’s not a sexual predator, but he is out of touch.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistApril 1, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版ImageJoe Biden's history of being physically affectionate puts him out of step with the mores of an increasingly progressive Democratic Party. CreditCreditSaul Loeb/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesOn Friday, Lucy Flores, a former Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor of Nevada, accused Joe Biden of touching her inappropriately as they waited to take the stage at a 2014 election rally. He put his hands on her shoulders, she said, then nuzzled her hair and kissed the back of her head. She didn’t accuse Biden, who is reportedly close to announcing his presidential candidacy, of sexual harassment or assault, just of making her uncomfortable. “I’m not suggesting that Biden broke any laws, but the transgressions that society deems minor (or doesn’t even see as transgressions) often feel considerable to the person on the receiving end,” she wrote.In response, Biden released a statement saying that while he’s often been physically affectionate as a politician, “not once — never — did I believe I acted inappropriately.”Then, on Monday, Amy Lappos, a former aide to the Democratic congressman Jim Himes, told The Hartford Courant
that Biden pulled her toward him to rub noses during a 2009 fund-raiser. “There’s absolutely a line of decency,” Lappos said, adding: “Crossing that line is not grandfatherly. It’s not cultural. It’s not affection. It’s sexism or misogyny.” Biden’s campaign hadn’t yet begun and was already in crisis.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Flores, Lappos and Biden are probably all telling the truth. There are countless photos of Biden behaving in the ways that Flores and Lappos describe: squeezing women, rubbing their shoulders, leaning in too close. All this was open, not furtive, presumably because it never occurred to Biden that he was doing anything untoward.I don’t necessarily blame him. In the past few years, women have been calling out daily indignities that previous generations grew up quietly tolerating: lingering hugs from a boss, embarrassing intimate questions, crude office jokes. Individually, these are small acts, and most men probably don’t understand how cumulatively draining they can be. Women, after all, have only recently begun to articulate it.I received plenty of unwanted shoulder massages when I was younger, and for a long time I assumed there was something wrong with me when they made me flinch. It was affirming to finally realize that other women also hated routine invasions of their personal space. But if it wasn’t always obvious to me that the men were at fault in these awkward encounters, it might not have been obvious to them, either.So I don’t think Biden’s avuncular pawing is a #MeToo story. (Lappos specifically said the way he grabbed her “wasn’t sexual.”) But if Biden was more oblivious than predatory, his history still puts him out of step with the mores of an increasingly progressive Democratic Party. On Sunday, The New York Times reported that some Democrats are bracing “for an extended reckoning about Mr. Biden and gender if he enters the race.” The inevitably of such a reckoning should make Biden reconsider getting in.Biden’s issues with gender, after all, go far beyond chronic handsiness. His waffling on reproductive choice troubles many feminists; as The Times reported last week, Biden’s “back-and-forth over abortion would become a hallmark of his political career.” He was the chairman of the hearings on Clarence Thomas’s Supreme Court nomination, where Anita Hill, who accused Thomas of sexual harassment, was demeaned and dismissed. Though Biden has expressed sorrow for how Hill was treated, he’s never directly apologized to her.Beyond gender, on issue after issue, if Biden runs for president he will have to run away from his own record. He — and by extension, we — will have to relive the debate over the Iraq war, which he voted to authorize. He’ll have to explain his vote to repeal the Glass-Steagall Act, which, by lifting regulations on banking, helped create the conditions for the 2008 financial meltdown. (Biden has called that vote one of the biggest regrets of his career.) In 2016, Hillary Clinton was slammed for her previous support of the 1994 Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act, which contributed to mass incarceration. Biden helped write the law, which he called, in 2015, the “1994 Biden crime bill.”None of this means that Democrats need to disavow Biden. He is by most accounts a man of great personal decency. As vice president, he pushed Barack Obama’s administration in the right direction on issues including gay marriage and campus sexual assault. It’s not surprising that he leads most polls of 2020 Democrats; he is well known and well loved.RELATEDMore from Opinion on Joe Biden:Opinion: Lessons From a Complaint Against Joe BidenApril 1, 2019Opinion | Michael Tomasky: The Biden Paradox, and How to Solve ItMarch 12, 2019Opinion | Jamelle Bouie: The Trouble With BidenMarch 11, 2019Opinion | Maureen Dowd: Uncle Joe’s Family WebFeb. 23, 2019Still, the widespread assumption that Biden would pose the strongest challenge to Donald Trump is unwarranted. In recent years, neither party has done well when they’ve chosen candidates who were meant to appeal to some elusive cadre of swing voters but lacked a robust grass-roots base. On paper, the war heroes John Kerry and John McCain looked electable; Obama and Trump did not. To those desperate to unseat Trump, the centrist, establishment Biden might seem like the safest choice, but it would actually be risky to pick a candidate who will need to constantly apologize for himself.Particularly when he doesn’t know how to do that very well. In response to Flores, Biden could have told her that he was sorry for making her uneasy. Instead, he focused on his intentions rather than her experience, a faint echo of the way he’d ignored Hill’s experience decades ago. No one should judge the whole span of Biden’s career by the standards of 2019, but if he’s going to run for president, it’s fair to ask whether he’s the right leader for this moment. He is a product of his time, but that time is up.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.
@michelleinbklyn A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: The Wrong Time for Biden. 

Opinion | The Massage Parlor Owner and Mar-a-Lago - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Massage Parlor Owner and Mar-a-LagoAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Massage Parlor Owner and Mar-a-Lago
We're jaded, but this should be a big scandal.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistMarch 11, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版ImagePresident Trump at a party at Mar-a-Lago in 2017. CreditCreditNicholas Kamm/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesEven if you’re an avid follower of the news, it’s hard to keep track of Donald Trump’s scandals. The president’s singular governing innovation has been to engage in grift so baroque, so galactically expansive, that trying to comprehend it all at once tests the limit of the human mind. Revelations that would have been shocking in the world we all lived in a few years ago — for example, news that the president overruled his staff to insist on security clearances for his fashion designer daughter and her husband — now take up half a news cycle, at most.Still, it’s worth trying to summon whatever is left of our pre-Trump sensibilities and pause to consider the epic sleaze of the unfolding story of Li Yang, also known as Cindy Yang.Yang, in case you haven’t heard of her yet, is a Florida businesswoman whose family owns a chain of massage parlors that, as The Miami Herald put it, “have gained a reputation for offering sexual services.” Last month, Robert Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots and a close friend of and donor to Trump, was charged with two counts of soliciting prostitution at a spa Yang founded, Orchids of Asia. (She reportedly sold it around 2013, but online reviews indicate it was known as a place to buy sex before that.) Kraft pleaded not guilty. The authorities have said that Orchids of Asia is part of a major sex trafficking operation.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]On Friday, The Herald reported that Yang attended a Super Bowl party at Trump’s West Palm Beach country club, where the president was cheering on Kraft’s team. It turns out that Yang was something of a regular in MAGA-land, posing for selfies with Trump, his adult sons, Kellyanne Conway and others. According to The Herald, she and her relatives donated $42,000 to a pro-Trump political action committee and more than $16,000 to Trump’s campaign. Last February, she was invited to the White House for an event put on by Trump’s Asian-American and Pacific Islander Initiative, an advisory commission.Now, there’s nothing
new about donors paying for photo ops. But Yang was more than just a hanger-on. Both Mother Jones and The Herald found evidence that Yang, who emigrated from China, ran a business, GY US Investments, selling Chinese executives access to Trump, his family and Republican officials. According to Mother Jones, she claimed to have gotten her clients into the most recent New Year’s Eve party at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort. The Herald reported that Yang arranged for a group of Chinese businessmen to attend a Trump fund-raising event in 2017 in Manhattan at which tickets, which foreigners can’t legally pay for, started at $2,700. Her Chinese-language website, which appears to have been taken down, said she was hosting a conference at Mar-a-Lago later this month; Trump’s sister was listed as the guest speaker.News that the owner of a chain of dubious massage parlors was brokering foreign access to the president of the United States should be a big deal. It has the potential to be a sex scandal, an intelligence scandal and a financial scandal all at once.“There are profound national security implications to this kind of relationship,” Jeffrey Prescott, a senior director on the National Security Council under Barack Obama, told me. “It goes to the obvious opportunities that foreign governments and interests are going to see to have influence over this president because of the way that he’s arranged his business practices.”Mother Jones has reported that Yang is an officer in local branches of two groups tied to the Chinese government: the Council for the Promotion of the Peaceful Reunification of China and the Chinese Association of Science and Technology. It’s hard to know what to make of these connections. Chris Lu, a former deputy secretary of labor who was a co-chairman of the White House Asian-Americans initiative during the Obama administration, cautions against casually imputing dual loyalty to Yang or anyone else.What’s clear, however, is that Trump owns a club where all sorts of characters can purchase access to him. Lu said that when he served in the White House, his rule was that “anyone who comes in contact with the president or is in the room with the president needs to be vetted. Who the hell is vetting people that are going into Mar-a-Lago?”More from Opinion on the Trump administration’s corruption:Opinion | Alex Kingsbury: Go Back to Normal After Trump? No ThanksMarch 1, 2019Opinion | Gail Collins: Meet Trump’s Worst!Feb. 6, 2019Opinion | Ross Douthat: Under Trump, the Swamp Is DrainingDec. 1, 2018Opinion | David Leonhardt And Ian Prasad Philbrick: Trump’s Corruption: The Definitive ListOct. 28, 2018As Prescott points out, when Trump met with
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan at Mar-a-Lago in 2017, a club member snapped photos as the two men discussed a North Korean missile launch. “If you were interested in information about how the president is conducting the public business while at the club, there are a number of routes in,” Prescott said.This goes beyond Mar-a-Lago. On Friday, The Guardian reported on foreign nationals using shell companies to donate to the Trump inaugural committee. Sam Patten, a lobbyist, has pleaded guilty to illegally helping a pro-Russian Ukrainian oligarch buy inauguration tickets for $50,000. Under Trump, America’s leadership and its secrets are for sale. Maybe that’s why the news about Yang hasn’t been earthshaking. When it comes to Trump’s clubs, she seems like someone who would fit right in.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.
@michelleinbklyn A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: The Massage Parlor Owner and Mar-a-Lago. 

Opinion | The Democratic Candidates Should Tell Us Now Who They’ll Put on the Supreme Court - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Democratic Candidates Should Tell Us Now Who They’ll Put on the Supreme CourtAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Democratic Candidates Should Tell Us Now Who They’ll Put on the Supreme CourtAnd they should choose nominees who will help dismantle mass incarceration.By James Forman Jr.Mr. Forman is a law professor at Yale. March 10, 2019ImageBryan Stevenson is a career death penalty opponent, consummate Supreme Court litigator and founder of the Equal Justice Initiative in Alabama.CreditCreditBrandon Thibodeaux for The New York TimesThe 2020 Democratic campaign is already shaping up to be a battle of big ideas. From the Green New Deal to Medicare for All to a wealth tax, the candidates and the country are discussing bold responses to some of the greatest challenges of our times.But when it comes to reforming our criminal legal system, the conversation hasn’t been as visionary — in fact, it’s been almost exclusively backward looking. Senators Kamala Harris and Amy Klobuchar are fending off criticism for actions they took as prosecutors. Should former Vice President Joe Biden enter the race, he can count on having to explain his role in championing regressive crime legislation in the 1980s and ’90s.This scrutiny is entirely appropriate. Walk into any criminal courthouse, and you will find it packed with judges and prosecutors lecturing defendants on the importance of accepting responsibility for their choices. Come election time, the officials who built that system must accept responsibility for theirs.But we should do more than look back. In a country that locks up more of its citizens than any other, we should demand that candidates for president have a plan for how they will confront mass incarceration and repair the harms it has caused. While most of the action in our criminal system takes place at the state and local level — almost 90 percent of prisoners are incarcerated in state, county, or local prisons or jails — the federal government still has an important role to play.As Rachel Barkow, a law professor at N.Y.U., argues in her important new book, “Prisoners of Politics: Breaking the Cycle of Mass Incarceration,” judicial appointments are one of the most powerful ways that a president can influence criminal justice policy. Federal judges make rules that govern nearly every aspect of our system, from police at the beginning of the criminal process to sentencing and prison at the end. Over the past 50 years, those rules have facilitated mass incarceration. Judges have held that the Fourth Amendment doesn’t prohibit police from racially profiling drivers during traffic stops, that the Sixth Amendment permits trials with underfunded defense lawyers who present little evidence or argument, and that the Eighth Amendment is no bar to outrageous sentences like life without parole for drug possession.How did our legal landscape become this anti-defendant? In part because so many federal judges are former prosecutors. Ms. Barkow reports that 43 percent of federal judges have been prosecutors, while 10 percent have been public defenders. A judge’s career background doesn’t always predict her rulings — Justice Sonia Sotomayor, a former prosecutor, often stands up for the accused. But she is the exception. Federal judicial opinions typically read as if their authors have given little thought to how an excessively punitive criminal justice system can ruin lives, decimate families and lay waste to entire communities.To upend this dynamic, Democratic presidential candidates must commit themselves to appointing federal judges who will work to challenge mass incarceration. This will mean going beyond anything President Barack Obama attempted. When Mr. Obama wrote a 55-page law review article on what a president could do to push criminal justice reform, he made no mention of judicial appointments. Worse, his appointments displayed almost the same pro-prosecution bias as his predecessors’: About 40 percent of his judicial nominees had worked as prosecutors, while some 15 percent had been public defenders.Democratic candidates should promise to eliminate this bias by reshaping the federal bench so that it has as many former public defenders as it does former prosecutors. The Supreme Court is a good place to start. Remember when Donald Trump courted the conservative right by announcing the names of possible nominees
several months before the 2016 election? Any Democratic candidate who wants to win the votes of a Democratic electorate increasingly focused on criminal justice reform should make a similar announcement — and populate the list with lawyers who have seen the criminal system from the standpoint of the accused.There is no shortage of quality names. High on my list would be Bryan Stevenson, a career death penalty opponent, consummate Supreme Court litigator and founder of the Equal Justice Initiative in Alabama. Or Michelle Alexander, former law clerk for Justice Harry Blackmun, civil rights lawyer and author of the canonical “The New Jim Crow.” (Ms. Alexander is also an opinion columnist for The New York Times.) Or Sherrilyn Ifill, a voting rights expert and head of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the civil rights firm founded by Thurgood Marshall in 1940.These aren’t the names that typically appear on Democratic short lists. They aren’t sitting judges, and unlike many who now serve on the federal bench, they’ve taken unpopular stands, sometimes at great risk. As a result, my list might sound unconventional, even outlandish, to those accustomed to the traditional approach to judicial selection. But it shouldn’t. With impeccable credentials, unassailable legal acumen and a fierce determination to take down mass incarceration, these are the future nominees whose names should start rolling off the tongues of Democratic candidates who want to be taken seriously as criminal justice reformers.James Forman Jr. (@jformanjr), a professor at Yale Law School, is the author of “Locking Up Our Own: Crime and Punishment in Black America.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Speak Up About the Court Now. 

Bronx Teenager Who Became a Symbol for Ending Cash Bail Is Arrested on Slashing Charge - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexNew YorkSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperNew York|Bronx Teenager Who Became a Symbol for Ending Cash Bail Is Arrested on Slashing ChargeAdvertisementSupported byBronx Teenager Who Became a Symbol for Ending Cash Bail Is Arrested on Slashing ChargePedro Hernandez, 19, who has accused the police of framing him in the past, was charged with slashing a man during a robbery. ImagePedro Hernandez, center, spoke to reporters in the Bronx Hall of Justice in September 2017 after a judge dismissed a charge against him. CreditCreditGregg Vigliotti for The New York TimesBy Michael GoldApril 9, 2019[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Once he was freed from jail and the charges against him were dropped, Pedro Hernandez expected to get a fresh start. He had spent a year in jail rather than plead guilty to a shooting in 2015 that he said he did not commit, and his case had become a rallying point for supporters of changing bail laws. Eventually the Bronx district attorney dropped charges against him in the shooting and a separate schoolyard assault. By December, he was set to go to college, and even had a meeting with former President Barack Obama on his schedule.But on Sunday night, Mr. Hernandez, 19, was arrested again in the Bronx. The police said he was involved in a robbery and knife attack that left one man with a gash on his face that required 15 stitches. Mr. Hernandez’s lawyers suggested the police and prosecutors were targeting their client and interfering with his ability to build a better life. “If the system stays out of Pedro’s way, he is a unique kid with a bright future,” said Alex Spiro, Mr. Hernandez’s defense lawyer in multiple cases. Julia Deutsch of the Bronx Defenders, which is representing Mr. Hernandez on the newest charges, said that Mr. Hernandez was the victim in the attack. She said his arrest is the latest instance of a pattern of harassment by law enforcement, and a series of false charges. Mr. Hernandez has been accused of three driving infractions since the 2015 shooting charges were dropped, twice for driving with a suspended license and once on charges he ran a red light.“Mr. Hernandez has been a target of the N.Y.P.D.,” Ms. Deutsch said in the statement, adding, “The details of this case will come out and the truth will prevail.”The police said that Mr. Hernandez and three other men walked up to two men who were waiting for a cab in the Bronx at around 7 a.m. on Sunday. According to a criminal complaint, the two groups started yelling at each other. Mr. Hernandez said, “Oh, you want problems.” Then he brandished a knife, swinging it in one victim’s direction and striking the other across the face, the complaint said.After that, one of the unidentified men with Mr. Hernandez beat the first victim with a silver baseball bat while the other ripped a Gucci watch and a gold chain from his body, the court document said.In her statement, Ms. Deutsch said that Mr. Hernandez’s face had been slashed and that he had been stabbed in the back on Sunday.Mr. Hernandez was seeking medical attention, Ms. Deutsch said, when the police “arrived, arrested and forcibly removed him from the hospital.”The police confirmed that Mr. Hernandez was arrested at the Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx. He was charged with multiple counts of robbery, assault, menacing and related crimes. He could face up to 25 years in prison on the top count, a felony charge of assault.The Bronx district attorney’s office declined to comment. A spokesman for the Police Department, Phil Walzak, rejected Mr. Hernandez’s lawyer’s claim that the teenager had been unfairly targeted. “The facts of the case are crystal clear, and these allegations are flatly false,” Mr. Walzak said.But Mr. Spiro linked the charges to a series of dismissed cases against Mr. Hernandez that he said exposed flaws in the criminal justice system.“When someone has been falsely arrested as many times as Pedro, and every case has been dismissed, it doesn’t seem to warrant the comment I make over and over again,” he said.Mr. Hernandez’s legal troubles attracted national attention after he was arrested in connection with a shooting in the Bronx in 2015. The victim, a 15-year-old boy, survived and said he did not see who had pulled the trigger. But Mr. Hernandez was arrested months later, and the judge in the case set an unusually high bail of $250,000.Mr. Hernandez then became a cause célèbre for people seeking to abolish the cash bail system when he refused to accept a plea bargain that would have spared him jail time. Instead, he spent a year on Rikers Island, maintaining his innocence while a private investigator hired by his family worked to find evidence that could exonerate him.The Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights foundation eventually put up the bail to free Mr. Hernandez, saying that Mr. Hernandez’s case exemplified the injustice of cash bail. (This year, the Legislature eliminated cash bail for most misdemeanors and nonviolent felonies.)The foundation, which did not respond to a request for comment, also solicited the help of Mr. Spiro, a prominent lawyer who has represented high-profile clients like the New England Patriots owner, Robert Kraft.The charges against Mr. Hernandez related to the shooting were ultimately dismissed in September 2017. Prosecutors said at the time that they lacked the evidence they needed, and that witnesses’ accounts were contradictory.Mr. Hernandez and his family blamed the inconsistencies on detectives and an assistant district attorney, who they maintained had coerced witnesses to give false testimony. Mr. Hernandez has filed a civil-rights suit against the city, which is still pending. Still, he hoped he would be able to move forward with his education, his lawyers said. Mr. Hernandez had completed high school in jail, and he said he had wanted to enroll in college last fall. But those plans had to be delayed, his family said, because he and his sister were still facing charges related to an unrelated robbery in a schoolyard in 2015.Mr. Hernandez sought to get those charges dismissed, too, and succeeded last October. On Tuesday, Mr. Spiro confirmed that Mr. Hernandez had enrolled in college.But Mr. Hernandez’s problems with law enforcement had not ended. Hours before he was scheduled to meet Mr. Obama at a gala in Manhattan in December, Mr. Hernandez was arrested again. He was accused of driving a car while his driver’s license was suspended.On Sunday, the police picked him up at the hospital and charged him with the robbery. So far, Mr. Hernandez is the only person arrested in connection with the incident. City jail records show that he was released from custody on Monday after posting bail.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Instead of Fresh Start, Teenager Is Arrested in Slashing. 

‘Hillbilly Elegy’ Had Strong Opinions About Appalachians. Now, Appalachians Return the Favor. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBooksSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBooks|‘Hillbilly Elegy’ Had Strong Opinions About Appalachians. Now, Appalachians Return the Favor.AdvertisementSupported byBooks of The Times‘Hillbilly Elegy’ Had Strong Opinions About Appalachians. Now, Appalachians Return the Favor.By Dwight GarnerFeb. 25, 2019ImageCreditCreditSonny Figueroa/The New York TimesBuy Book ▾AmazonLocal BooksellersBarnes and NobleWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.J.D. Vance’s “Hillbilly Elegy,” the surprise best seller published in 2016, is a frisky memoir with a bit of conservative moralizing dangling off, like the price tag on Minnie Pearl’s hat. Nearly everyone likes the memoir sections. (His portrait of his grandmother, a “pistol-packing lunatic,” is indelible.) The moralizing has been divisive.A new anthology, “Appalachian Reckoning: A Region Responds to ‘Hillbilly Elegy,’” edited by Anthony Harkins and Meredith McCarroll, presents the most sustained pushback to Vance’s book (soon to be a Ron Howard movie) thus far. It’s a volley of intellectual buckshot from high up alongside the hollow.Vance’s book tells the story of his chaotic childhood in Ohio, where part of his extended family migrated from Kentucky’s Appalachian region. Some of his brawling, working-class kin are alcoholics, and some are abusers; nearly all are feisty beyond measure.The book is about how young J.D. survived his mother’s drug addiction and a long series of hapless stepfathers and went on, against steep odds, to serve in the Marines and graduate from Yale Law School. It’s a plain-spoken, feel-good, up-from-one’s-bootstraps story. It would have gotten away clean if Vance hadn’t, on his way up, pushed Appalachians back down.He calls Appalachians lazy (“many folks talk about working more than they actually work”). He complains about white “welfare queens.” He’s against curbs on predatory payday lending practices. He harkens back to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan’s controversial “culture of poverty” themes.This kind of criticism, for many Appalachians, verges on the personal. When Vance spoke on a panel at the 2018 Appalachian Studies Association conference, a group called Y’ALL (Young Appalachian Leaders and Learners) staged a protest, turning their chairs away from him, booing and singing Florence Reece’s anthem “Which Side Are You On?”ImageMeredith McCarrollCreditDennis GriggsTo be fair to Vance, he finds some positive things to say about Appalachians. And he writes that government has a role to play, if a smaller one than some might wish, in helping a population battered by plant closings, geographical disadvantage, environmental despoiling and centuries of the most rapacious capitalism imaginable.To hear the writers in “Appalachian Reckoning” tell it, the problems with “Hillbilly Elegy” start with its subtitle: “A Memoir of a Family and Culture in Crisis.” Those last three words are a lot to swallow. They illustrate Vance’s habit of pivoting from personal experience into the broadest of generalizations. His is a book in which the words “I” and “we” are slippery indeed.As Dwight B. Billings, a professor emeritus of sociology and Appalachian studies at the University of Kentucky, puts it in this new anthology, “It is one thing to write a personal memoir extolling the wisdom of one’s personal choices but quite something else — something extraordinarily audacious — to presume to write the ‘memoir’ of a culture.”Billings quotes a Democrat from Ohio, Betsy Rader, who wrote: “Vance’s sweeping stereotypes are shark bait for conservative policymakers. They feed into the mythology that the undeserving poor make bad choices and are to blame for their own poverty, so taxpayer money should not be wasted in programs to help lift people out of poverty.”In her perceptive essay, Lisa R. Pruitt, a law professor at the University of California, Davis, boils down Vance’s advice this way: “‘ Hillbillies’ just need to pull themselves together, keep their families intact, go to church, work a little harder and stop blaming the government for their woes.”Pruitt compares Vance’s memoir to those by Barack Obama and Justice Sonia Sotomayor. What if Obama, she asks, had condemned “those he worked among as a community organizer in Chicago, even while basking in his own success as the obvious fruits of his own labor.”She continues, “Or imagine Sonia Sotomayor, in her best-selling memoir ‘My Beloved World,’ taking complete credit for her class migration from the Bronx’s Puerto Rican American community to a seat on the U.S. Supreme Court, all while saying the Latinx youth and young adults left behind simply lacked the grit and discipline to achieve similarly lofty goals.”ImageAnthony HarkinsCreditBryan Lemon/Western Kentucky UniversityFor every essay in “Appalachian Reckoning” that’s provocative, another is unreadable. The academic language in some of these pieces — “wider discursive contexts,” “capitalist realist ontology,” “fashion a carceral landscape” — makes it seem as if their authors were walking around on stilts.You may find Vance’s policy positions to be rubbish, but at least they are clearly articulated rubbish.There are a few pro-Vance pieces in “Appalachian Reckoning.” And not everything here is a polemic. The volume includes poems, photographs, memoirs and a comic piece or two.I’m not entirely sure why it’s in this book, but Jeremy B. Jones’s love song to Ernest T. Bass, the fictional character on “The Andy Griffith Show” who was addicted to throwing rocks, is a pleasure.A few of these writers try to one-up Vance on the atrocity meter. High points in this regard go to Michael E. Maloney, a Cincinnati-based community organizer, who writes:“My grandfather killed a man who tried to rob his sawmill. My father killed one man in a West Virginia coal mine for making a disrespectful remark, another for drawing a gun on him, and another who had murdered my uncle Dewey.”That’s a lot of Appalachian reckoning.The book to read, if you’re interested in the history of the exploitation of Appalachia, is Steven Stoll’s “Ramp Hollow: The Ordeal of Appalachia” (2017).We can gawk at mountain people all we like. But, Stoll writes, “Seeing without history is like visiting a city after a devastating hurricane and declaring that the people there have always lived in ruins.”Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter: @DwightGarner.Appalachian ReckoningA Region Responds to ‘Hillbilly Elegy’Edited by Anthony Harkins and Meredith McCarroll421 pages. West Virginia University Press. $28.99.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: He Told Mountain Tales. Now, the Mountains Roar Back.. 

Seth Meyers on Donald Trump, Fatherhood and What He Won’t Joke About - The New York Times
Seth Meyers on Donald Trump, Fatherhood and What He Won’t Joke AboutImageSeth Meyers, photographed in New York on Dec. 19, 2018.CreditCreditSean DonnolaSectionsSkip to contentSkip to site indexQ&ASeth Meyers on Donald Trump, Fatherhood and What He Won’t Joke AboutA wide-ranging conversation with the era’s defining late-night host on the eve of his show’s fifth anniversary.Seth Meyers, photographed in New York on Dec. 19, 2018.CreditCreditSean DonnolaSupported byBy Frank BruniFeb. 28, 2019Late-night television comedy used to be exactly that: comedy. Sure, it was topical. Obviously, it dabbled in politics. But it wasn’t a running commentary — a gaping, keening, raging one — on the nation’s political life. It wasn’t a main crucible for Americans’ political angst. The election of Donald Trump changed that. The president gave Americans more angst to work out.He also gave hosts like Seth Meyers material and a challenge: How do you make fun of often grave events without making light of them? “Late Night With Seth Meyers,” which recently celebrated its fifth anniversary, does this distinctively and brilliantly, by folding barbed one-liners into more shapely structures, including “A Closer Look,” which is essentially a spoken essay, about 10 minutes long, that hews tightly to a discrete theme — one from mid-December mulled the tandem hooey of Trump’s philanthropy and his proposed border wall — and that Meyers does every few days. Each weeknight’s broadcast takes a similarly cerebral approach that extends to his selection of guests, which often includes writers and politicians.Meyers, 45, has a long history with Trump, who hosted “Saturday Night Live” for the first of two times in 2004 (the other was in 2015), back when the comic was in his third season as a writer and cast member on the show. Meyers was also the featured performer at the 2011 White House Correspondents’ Association dinner where he and President Barack Obama separately roasted Trump, who was in the audience. Some political observers have suggested that Trump’s presidential ambitions were fueled by his anger after that evening, when he sat stone-faced as Meyers made jokes like, “Donald Trump has been saying that he will run for president as a Republican, which is surprising, since I just assumed he was running as a joke.”Meyers lives in Manhattan, where “Late Night” is taped, with his wife, Alexi, a lawyer, and their two sons, Ashe and Axel, who are both under 3 years old. We spoke in early January at his studio at 30 Rockefeller Plaza and in a phone call a few weeks later. Frank Bruni: A colleague of mine at The Times who has spent more time with Trump than I have was just saying that when you’re in his presence, there is a charisma that helps explain how this all happened. Do you agree?Seth Meyers: Yes. It’s interesting, because when he hosted “S.N.L.” [in 2004], I didn’t find him to be particularly charismatic. Now, that was not him at his best — hosting a comedy show. My takeaway was that he was not unfriendly but he wasn’t particularly friendly either. His reaction to most of the comedy was that he liked it if it worked. It didn’t strike me that he had a taste for it.FB: So the audience is the arbiter of everything. That’s consistent with the Trump who went on to run for president.SM: We did this sketch called “Donald Trump’s House of Wings,” as in chicken wings. I’m as proud of it as almost anything that I was a part of. There was a line of sketches that had been on the show about bad restaurants: There was [the baseball player] Derek Jeter’s Taco Hole, [the Rev.] Al Sharpton’s Casa de Sushi. In Donald Trump’s House of Wings, it was him in a yellow suit with a yellow tie talking about having a chicken-wing restaurant, and the song was “Jump (for My Love)” by the Pointer Sisters (1983), but it was to “Trump.” And there was me and Amy Poehler, Kenan Thompson and Maya Rudolph dressed as chicks in eggs.We danced next to him. And there’s actually a moment when it’s crushing with the audience and he’s surprised, because he hadn’t liked the sketch the whole week. He does a thing that he does now all the time during rallies where he has no poker face, he just takes it in: Oh! Look at that! A hit! And then he starts to dance and enjoy it. He’s very good in the sketch.FB: That is such a perfect harbinger and illustration of his outsourcing of his judgment to whatever gets him applause. Like, “I’m going to build a wall and Mexico will pay for it.”SM: The difference is that he didn’t actually have to open the House of Wings. The other thing I remember is that he had cut out a page of Variety, just the column of the ratings, and he carried it around in his breast pocket and would show you how well “The Apprentice” had done.Looking back at that week, I want to make clear: It was fascinating to be around what was at the time this New York icon. I remember him saying, “Where are you from?” “Do you like working here?” “Have you seen the ratings of ‘The Apprentice’?” It was almost as though: I’ll ask two personal questions and then, having done that part of humanity, I’ll drop this interesting tidbit.FB: I have to ask: Do we have you to blame for Trump’s presidential campaign?SM: I blame Obama. (Laughs.) I think Obama was too rough on him [at the correspondents’ dinner]. What are you going to do: Run for president to show me up? Seems like a waste of time. I saw Trump a couple of days after that [roast] and went over to thank him for being a good sport. It was at the Met Ball, I think. He told me that my jokes were too rough, but I think that he thought it was pretty cool that he had been on the president’s radar enough that Obama poked fun at him.FB: I think your show and others like it play a distinct and important psychological role in the nation’s processing of this presidency.SM: I have personally found it cathartic to do this show. I hope it provides some catharsis for the audience as well. There is a sense now, certainly more than when we started the show in 2014, that we are all going through something together. At the end of the day, I don’t think that we are agents of change at “Late Night,” but I do hope we’re making this moment more pleasant to go through.FB: Aren’t there some Americans in this Balkanized information environment who get as much news from your show as from any other source?SM: I don’t know. I’m aware of the possibility. And if that’s the case, we try very hard to be fair. Although I do want to qualify that when I mean fair, I don’t mean one joke about them, one joke about them. We try not to say things that are untrue. If somebody should make what I believe is probably not the safest choice to get their news from us, we don’t want to lead them astray.FB: Do you see what you do as a form of journalism?SM: No. If you watch “A Closer Look,” we use so many clips of actual journalists to make our point. Most journalists don’t just show clips of other journalists. They actually go out and do journalism.FB: On a recent episode, you said, “The president is incompetent and unhinged. He’s virtually incapable of uttering a truthful or coherent thought about almost anything.” Nuanced! Do you believe every word of that?SM: Yeah. I remember doing an interview with someone who said, “You called him a liar. That’s a big word.” It’s actually not a big word to call somebody a liar. The definition is really simple. When somebody tells a bunch of lies, that’s the perfect word for it. Maybe you can say, “Wow, your definition of unhinged is pretty severe.” But I’ve got to be honest: I don’t think that was a crazy thing to say. He has shown us something about us that will be hard to forget.FB: What has he shown us?SM: That we will allow this to happen. Enough of us will say, “This is O.K.”FB: What have we deemed O.K.?SM: Vulgarity. Crassness. Mendacity. Just the litany of lies that you would have thought would be disqualifying for anybody else.FB: Is he racist?SM: I think he is racist. I think he could be friends with a black person, but he doesn’t think well of black people.FB: Is he amoral?SM: Oh, he’s amoral. That’s the easiest.FB: Are there things in the news that you feel you can’t joke about?SM: It’s case by case. We don’t have some overarching idea. But I will say that when you’re doing a show the day after Charlottesville or the day after a school shooting, those were cases where we spoke of it earnestly. There are other times — like the day after the [2016] election — when you’re honest about where you’re at but also trying to have jokes in there.ImageMeyers and Frank Bruni.CreditSean DonnolaFB: Your opening monologue right after the election was heartfelt and personal. You mentioned being a father; you noted that some parents out there would see their daughter become the first female president. How did those remarks come together?SM: There were just a few times on the show when I was lucky to be able to sit and talk off the top of my head, not off a script.FB: That was impromptu? So it could feel and be more direct?SM: I wrote it out, but it wasn’t on cue cards, the way a monologue usually is.FB: I also noticed that while you didn’t mask your being upset about the outcome, you extended a hand to, and spoke kindly of, Trump voters.SM: I never pretended that I wasn’t shocked by the outcome. But at that moment, I really did want to give the benefit of the doubt to everyone. There are people in other parts of the country that are not Manhattan who have a different set of fears than I would have.FB: What other subject matter, besides shootings, feels worth approaching with special care?SM: When you do stuff about the opioid crisis, it’s a lot harder to get comic traction. But I think we’ve managed. Those segments have been less of a laugh riot, but we’re lucky that we have an audience that’s willing to forgive the lack of jokes if they realize that the topic is serious.FB: What kind of joke about the opioid crisis does work?SM: When you can frame it in the absurdity of the fact that there was a town in West Virginia that filled enough prescriptions for painkillers to treat the entire Eastern Seaboard, you can make a joke off that. You can separate that from the real-world impact. This is something that’s absurd. It’s absurd that we allowed that to happen.FB: So absurdity is humor’s saving grace?SM: Yeah.FB: What do you worry most about in terms of the lasting damage of Trump’s presidency?SM: When I think of my kids, I worry the most — it feels clichéd to say — about climate change. I also want to stress that no matter who was president right now, I think that would still be a very scary thing. I don’t want to put that on Trump’s doorstep. Also, I want to live in a world where you can be kind to people and they can be kind to you if you have different political views. I do charity events every now and then, and there will be people who come up to me and say they voted for Trump. And we will have a nice conversation. I hope that’s not unique to me.FB: I have relatives who voted for Trump.SM: Can you still be kind to them and can they be kind to you?FB: I love them, and they help me not to see this in really reductive ways. So when people say, “Everybody who voted for Donald Trump is a racist,” I know that not to be true. Everyone who voted for Donald Trump perhaps averted their gaze from racism, and we can make moral judgments about that.SM: I agree with that 100 percent.FB: Do you ever worry, whether it’s your show or The Times, that because we’re seen as creatures of the coast, our criticisms and focus on Trump actually embolden his supporters?SM: I think he does a great job of framing himself as a victim, but I also think he would have done that no matter what. I don’t know how we don’t make fun of him based on the standards we had for making fun of people before he came to office. You can’t reframe the standards of what is deserving of mockery based on this three-dimensional chess game of Is this actually helping him? Because ultimately you want these standards — of what is mocked — to survive him.Certainly there are people on the right who will say that comics were easy on Obama. But I don’t think it’s a one-for-one because it’s not like Obama ever behaved like this. Also, I think Trump’s supporters are pretty emboldened to begin with. I don’t think they need any extra help to feel like he’s under siege.FB: How do you do justice to what is, frankly, the horror of Trump’s presidency without tearing at the fabric of the country so violently that it doesn’t repair?SM: We try very hard not to make fun of people who voted for Donald Trump. In the first months or so, I remember, we would have jokes like, “So I’m guessing if you’re a coal miner from Virginia, you must be thrilled.” We realized that it felt a little gross. We’re trying hard not to say that everyone who voted for Donald Trump is the same as Donald Trump.FB: Has the consumption of media and culture in this country become so fractured, in the way we set up our social-media feeds and such, that the idea of a changed mind is an anachronism at this point?SM: That worries me a ton. I try to follow conservative news sources as well, because I want to hear what they’re saying. I don’t know that my mind is changed.FB: I do feel like a healthy measure of humility is gained, though. Have you had many conservative writers on the show?SM: We’ve had people like Shepard Smith from Fox News, [the author of “Hillbilly Elegy” (2016)] J.D. Vance and [the Nebraska senator] Ben Sasse.FB: What is your own consumption of culture like?SM: I try to read the fiction of all the authors on the show.FB: Is there a risk with fiction writers in holding the audience’s attention?SM: We really have found not.FB: Did you decide from the start to include authors?SM: We thought that would be fun early on. I remember saying, “We’re going to have politicians and authors.” And in the end, authors have turned out to be so much better than politicians — so much better.Authors are genuinely great storytellers. There is still something a little magical to an audience about people who can write a book. Most people, the longest thing they ever wrote was a paper in high school, and they had to mess with the margins just to get it to 10 pages. And I just think that people like to hear authors talk. Whereas what I’ve found with politicians — and this is bipartisan — they’re just gonna answer the question they wish you’d asked and they’re going to say it the way they practiced it, and oftentimes it’s something they’ve said a bunch. So there’s the lack of the crackle you want during an interview.FB: At the photo shoot for this article, you told me you had just finished — under duress from your wife, initially — binge-watching all the seasons of HBO’s “Sex and the City.”SM: I underestimated it. My wife used to watch it when it aired last decade, and I’d often catch the last two minutes, and it’s very unfair to judge a show based on the narrative wrap-up, the voice-over of Carrie Bradshaw explaining the episode. But it’s wonderful: really great, three-dimensional characters that I felt very deeply about the longer the show went on. I thought it was just fascinating to see a show where the characters aged as they went through different parts of their lives.I also loved “Girls.” I should say my wife is part of four friends, very close. There were parts of “Girls” that really reminded me of them, and parts of “Sex and the City.”FB: So you know what question I then have to ask. Which character in each is your wife?SM: Well, my wife, I would say, is a Carrie-Miranda hybrid.FB: And if we’re using the “Girls” characters?SM: She’s Allison Williams — was it Marnie?FB: You realize you may not be paying her a compliment to call her Marnie?SM: She knows. We’re friends with Allison, and I’ve watched them talk about how many things that Marnie did were true to her.FB: What has most surprised you about fatherhood?SM: I had really high hopes for it — it’s matched them. I was so close to my father as a child, and I hoped it to be true for me and my boys, and it has been so far. I’m uncommonly close with my parents. They were and continue to be as close friends as I have.Here’s the thing. This was always my dream — beyond my dream — to be where I am now. I wanted to have a job in comedy. I wanted to have a job writing. And my favorite show as a kid was “Saturday Night Live.” I’m so much farther beyond what I had ever hoped for myself professionally, and yet, when I leave for work in the morning, my son gives me a running hug. So I walk out the door and even though I have this whole wonderful day ahead of me, I know for a fact that I’ve already had the best part of my day. And that, I guess, is kind of surprising.This interview has been edited and condensed.Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.
@FrankBruni • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page 55 of T Magazine with the headline: In Conversation With Seth Meyers. 

How Much Are Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Trips? Watchdog Agency Struggles to Find Out - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|How Much Are Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Trips? Watchdog Agency Struggles to Find OutAdvertisementSupported byHow Much Are Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Trips? Watchdog Agency Struggles to Find OutImagePresident Trump has spent 78 days of his presidency at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Fla.CreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesBy Katie RogersFeb. 5, 2019WASHINGTON — The Government Accountability Office set out in 2017 to calculate the total cost to taxpayers of President Trump’s trips to Mar-a-Lago, his resort in Palm Beach, Fla., but said in a report issued on Tuesday that it could come up with only a snapshot of the expenses because the Trump administration did not respond to requests for more information.The agency ended up studying only four trips the president took over a one-month period in 2017 and found that government agencies, including the Defense Department and the Secret Service, spent some $13.6 million — an average of over $3 million for each trip — to transport and protect the president, with the bulk of the expenses going to cover the cost of military aircraft and boats during that time.The tab, officials say, is most likely higher since the total expenses that administration members racked up traveling, dining and staying at the resort are not known for the four trips, much less for the 218 days of his presidency that Mr. Trump has spent at one of his properties. Of that total,
78 of the days were spent at Mar-a-Lago.The G.A.O. officials who compiled the report said the White House did not respond to three separate requests for information that might help them flesh out travel costs, while the Secret Service and the Defense Department had not submitted regular accounting of expenses to Congress, as is required by the Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976.As a result, the G.A.O. studied only trips Mr. Trump took from Feb. 3 through March 5, 2017, hoping to piece together the costs. On one of those trips, for example, the president hosted Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, at Mar-a-Lago. At the time, a White House official said the president had paid for Mr. Abe and his wife’s trip to Florida as a “gift.”Without the White House’s cooperation, details of Mr. Trump’s personal expenditures related to that trip could not be included in the report. “You could assume it’s the total cost of $13.6 million,” Brian Lepore, the G. A.O.’s director of defense capabilities and management, said in an interview of the White House’s lack of response. “Plus something else.”Mr. Lepore emphasized that several agencies, including the Defense Department, the Secret Service and the Coast Guard, were able to furnish details, and that the Defense Department and the Secret Service had agreed to deliver more detailed reports to Congress in the future. In the case of the Defense Department, the report found that there had been no process in place for reporting expenditures.The White House did not respond to a request for comment on why it did not supply information for the report.Mr. Lepore said that the Obama White House, which underwent a similar review for trips President Barack Obama took to Chicago and West Palm Beach in 2013, met with G.A.O. officials but ultimately declined to release information. The Clinton White House, which faced a review in 1999, furnished cost information on President Bill Clinton’s international trips to Africa, Chile and China.“We’d certainly want to know the cost of lodging and meals and incidental expenses” incurred by staff members on trips to Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Lepore said.Noah Bookbinder, the executive director of the ethics watchdog CREW, said that the report raised significant issues, particularly since it found that about $60,000 had been pumped back into Mar-a-Lago during that time period.“When the president travels to visit his properties, he is promoting those businesses, offering them extensive free publicity as well as in some cases providing access and other perks to his paying customers,” Mr. Bookbinder said. “Of course when the money is paid directly to a presidential property like Mar-a-Lago, those conflict-of-interest concerns intensify.”The Democratic lawmakers who requested the report also asked officials to examine the costs of protecting two of the president’s sons, Eric and Donald Trump Jr., on three international trips taken in early 2017. The report found that the younger Trumps flew by commercial aircraft, and it cost the Secret Service about $396,000, mostly in temporary duty costs, to protect them on trips to Uruguay, the Dominican Republic and the United Arab Emirates.The Secret Service, which did not respond to a request for comment, is responsible for protecting the president’s adult children unless they decline those protections, as Donald Trump Jr. has done on and off in the past.The Democrats who requested the report, including Senators Dianne Feinstein of California and Gary Peters of Michigan, and Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, said they were alarmed by its findings.“This is part of a troubling pattern of wasteful spending and serious abuse of tax dollars by the administration,” they said in a statement. “We will keep investigating this issue to ensure taxpayer dollars are being used effectively and appropriately.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Visits Mar-a-Lago Four Times, At What Cost?. 

Opinion | How the Upper Middle Class Is Really Doing - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|How the Upper Middle Class Is Really DoingAdvertisementOpinionSupported byHow the Upper Middle Class Is Really DoingIs it more similar to the top 1 percent or the working class?By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistFeb. 24, 2019
Since 1980, the incomes of the very rich have grown
faster than the economy. The upper middle class
has kept pace with the economy, while the
middle class and poor have fallen behind.
CHANGE IN
INCOME:
Top 0.01%
400% cumulative increase
300
200
Rest of top 1%
100
Per capita G.D.P.
90th to 99th
percentiles
Middle 40%
Bottom 50%
0
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
Since 1980, the incomes of the very rich
have grown faster than the economy.
The upper middle class has kept pace
with the economy, while the
middle class and poor
have fallen behind.
CHANGE IN
INCOME:
Top 0.01%
400%
cumulative increase
300
200
Rest of
top 1%
90th to
99th
percent-
iles
100
Per capita G.D.P.
Middle
40%
Bottom
50%
0
’80
’85
’90
’95
’00
’05
’10
Note: Incomes are after taxes and include government transfers.Sources: Thomas Piketty, Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman (incomes); Bureau of Economic Analysis (G.D.P.)By The New York TimesHave upper-middle-class Americans been winners in the modern economy — or victims? That question has been the subject of a debate recently among economists, writers and others.On one side are people who argue that the bourgeois professional class — essentially, households with incomes in the low-to-mid six figures but without major wealth — is not so different from the middle class and poor. All of these groups are grappling with slow-growing incomes, high medical costs, student debt and so on.The only real winners in today’s economy are at the very top, according to this side of the debate. When Bernie Sanders talks about “the greed of billionaires” or Thomas Piketty writes about capital accumulation, they are making a version of this case.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]On the opposing side are people who believe that the country’s defining class line is further down the economic ladder. To them, the upper middle class is on the happy side, enjoying rising incomes, longer lifespans, stable marriages and good schools. Richard Reeves’s recent book, “Dream Hoarders” made this case, as did Matthew Stewart’s well-titled Atlantic article: “The 9.9 Percent Is the New American Aristocracy.”I think the chart above helps to resolve the debate. It shows that both sides have a point — but that it’s a mistake to divide the country into only two groups. To make grand pronouncements about the American economy, you need to talk about three groups.The first is indeed the top 1 percent of earners, and especially the very richest. Their post-tax incomes (and wealth) have surged since 1980, rising at a much faster rate than economic growth. They are now capturing an even greater share of the economy’s bounty.Then there are the bottom 90 percent of households, who are in the opposite position. The numbers here take into account taxes and government transfers, like Social Security, financial aid and anti-poverty benefits. Even so, the incomes of the bottom 90 percent have trailed G.D.P. Over time, their share of the economy’s bounty has shrunk.Finally, there is the upper middle class, defined here as the 90th to 99th percentiles of the income distribution (making roughly $120,000 to $425,000 a year after tax). Their income path doesn’t look like that of either the first or second group. It’s not above the line or below it. It’s almost directly on top of it. Since 1980, the incomes of the upper middle class have been growing at almost the identical rate as the economy.If you, dear reader, happen to be in this group, I’m not trying to dismiss your economic anxieties. I know that you may not feel rich. You probably have big mortgage payments, rising medical costs and perhaps eye-popping tuition bills.But I’d ask you to spend a minute thinking about how much more challenging life is for the bottom 90 percent. These households aren’t making six-figure incomes, and they have received only meager raises over the past few decades. They aren’t receiving their fair share of the country's economic growth. No wonder so many feel frustrated.And for too long, the country’s economic policy, even under Democrats, has blurred the distinction between the upper middle class and the actual middle class.In the 2008 campaign, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton both used $250,000 as the upper limit of the middle class. (Even in the New York area, $250,000 in pre-tax income puts a household in the top 10 percent.) Obama then delivered a tax cut for everyone below that cutoff. In the 2016 campaign, Clinton and Sanders used the same definition.A better approach exists. Politicians should recognize that there are three broad income groups, not just two. The bottom 90 percent of Americans does deserve a tax cut, to lift its stagnant incomes. The top 1 percent deserves a substantial tax increase. The upper middle class deserves neither. Its taxes should remain roughly constant, just as its share of economic output has.So here’s some good news: The 2020 Democratic candidates are moving in this direction.Kamala Harris’s big tax cut applies only to families making less than $100,000. Elizabeth Warren’s child-care proposal delivers 99 percent of its benefits to the bottom 90 percent of earners, according to Moody’s Analytics. The housing plans from Harris and Cory Booker give all their benefits to the bottom 90 percent, according to the Center on Poverty and Social Policy. The tax cut from Sherrod Brown, who’s a potential candidate, is likewise focused on the middle class and poor.Ro Khanna, a Silicon Valley congressman who co-wrote Brown’s tax plan, has a useful way of thinking about this. “Our priority has to be the working poor and those struggling to make it into the middle class,” Khanna told me. “What do the upper middle class care most about in my district? They want a pluralistic America that is engaged with the world and embraces technology and future industries. What they don’t want is a backlash to diversity, a backlash to globalization, a backlash to technology.”The upper middle class doesn’t deserve the blame for our economic problems. But it doesn’t deserve much government help, either.RELATEDMore from Opinion on income inequality:Opinion | Farhad Manjoo: Abolish BillionairesFeb. 6, 2019Opinion | Will Wilkinson: Don’t Abolish BillionairesFeb. 21, 2019Opinion | Paul Krugman: The Economics of Soaking the RichJan. 5, 2019Opinion | Richard V. Reeves: Stop Pretending You’re Not RichJune 10, 2017The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.
@DLeonhardt • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: How the Upper Middle Class In America Is Really Doing. 

Opinion | An Emergency for the G.O.P. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|An Emergency for the G.O.P.AdvertisementOpinionSupported byAn Emergency for the G.O.P.The Constitution or The Donald? Why is this such a hard choice for congressional Republicans?By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 22, 2019ImageCreditCreditGiulia SagramolaOnce again, congressional Republicans are facing a gut-check moment, forced to choose between supporting and defending the Constitution or Donald J. Trump. It’s not looking good.House Democrats introduced a joint resolution of disapproval on Friday aimed at canceling President Trump’s bogus national emergency at the southern border. Representative Joaquin Castro of Texas is leading the charge, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi is expediting the measure, which is on track for a floor vote on Tuesday. It is widely expected to pass the chamber, where Democrats have the majority.Once the resolution clears the House, the Senate is required to hold its own vote within 18 days — meaning the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, cannot do his usual stonewalling. Even so, with Republicans in control there, and loath to irk the president, the resolution is widely expected to die. At that point, it will be up to the courts, where multiple suits have already been filed, to grapple with this out-of-control executive.It is not too late to stop this legislative cop-out. Critical principles are at stake — Congress’s power of the purse, the separation of powers — that transcend any one declaration or leader. Members of both parties need to make clear that a presidential pique is not the same thing as a national emergency, that a president who fails to persuade Congress to support his priorities can’t then simply pursue them by fiat. Lawmakers who cannot rally themselves to this cause should stop pretending that they’re anything more than partisan automatons; they will have declared themselves members of a second-class branch of government.As has often been noted, there is no border emergency, aside from Mr. Trump’s desperation to make good on a rabble-rousing campaign slogan. Having failed to extract billions of taxpayer dollars from Congress for the construction of his wall, the president executed a power grab. Don’t just take our word for it; that’s how Mr. Trump himself explained it in last week’s bizarre Rose Garden emergency declaration.Think of it as the presidential equivalent of phoning 911 because your pizza delivery is taking too long.Congress has the power to effectively override an emergency declaration through a resolution of disapproval. On Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi sent Democratic and Republican members a “Dear Colleague” letter urging support for such as move. “We have a solemn responsibility to uphold the Constitution, and defend our system of checks and balances against the President’s assault,” she wrote.House Republicans once cared passionately about checks and balances, and frequently accused President Barack Obama of abusing his authority. In 2016, one of the “Big Ideas” in the conference’s “Better Way Agenda” was a pledge to end presidential overreach: “Our President has been acting more like a monarch than an elected official. That stops now.”Mr. Obama did extend emergency declarations for several uncontroversial foreign policy matters and use executive orders (lawfully) to achieve policy goals. But he never invoked emergency authority to divert money after Congress refused to fund a pet project. For some reason, the Republicans have been far less vocal about their high-minded principles with Mr. Trump in the White House. Of the more than 225 co-sponsors who had signed on to the disapproval resolution as of Friday, only one was a Republican, Representative Justin Amash of Michigan.In the Senate, plenty of Republicans remain skittish about executive overreach. Several have publicly expressed disapproval of Mr. Trump’s faux-mergency, ranging from the ultraconservative Mike Lee to the more moderate Susan Collins, from the freshman Mitt Romney to the old-timer Chuck Grassley. “I don’t like this,” Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski told The Associated Press. “I think it takes us down a road and with a precedent that, if it’s allowed, that we may come to regret.” Kentucky’s Rand Paul declared that “extraconstitutional executive actions are wrong, no matter which party does them.” For the joint resolution to clear the Senate, only four Republicans need to join Democrats to assert that the president cannot thumb his nose at Congress whenever it suits him. But despite all the hand wringing, thus far, only one has said she will: Ms. Collins, who recently told reporters, “If it’s a clean disapproval resolution, I will support it.”Some Republicans dislike what Mr. Trump has done but have convinced themselves that there’s no point in voting for the resolution since the president will surely veto it. Others rationalize that the emergency declaration, while outrageous, may be technically legal, and thus should be left to the courts to sort out. Some Republicans are toying with the idea of voting against the resolution but then introducing new legislation to reform the underlying National Emergencies Act.These are all dodges — ways to make Republicans feel better about not pushing back — and they can provide only false comfort. As he has shown time and again, Mr. Trump is a bully, and he likes to push boundaries. Let him take your lunch money today, and tomorrow he will kick you out of your treehouse.Republican lawmakers swore an oath to bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution and to well and faithfully discharge the duties of their office. Here’s their chance.RelatedA podcast featuring Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David LeonhardtOpinionIs Trump the Real National Emergency?Feb. 21, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: An Emergency for the G.O.P.. 

Opinion | Tariff Man Has Become Deficit Man - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Tariff Man Has Become Deficit ManAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTariff Man Has Become Deficit ManTrump really has no idea how international trade works.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistMarch 7, 2019ImagePresident Trump's policies have produced bigger budget deficits and trade deficits. CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesRepublicans hate deficits. Or at least that’s what they claim.Republicans in Congress spent the entire Obama administration inveighing against budget deficits, warning incessantly that we were going to have a Greek-style fiscal crisis any day now. Donald Trump, on the other hand, focused his ire mainly on trade deficits, insisting that “our jobs and wealth are being given to other countries that have taken advantage of us.”But over two years of unified G.O.P. control of government, a funny thing happened: Both deficits surged. The budget deficit has hit a level unprecedented except during wars and in the immediate aftermath of major economic crises; the trade deficit in goods has set a record.What’s the significance of this tide of red ink?Let’s be clear: Neither the budget deficit nor the trade deficit poses a clear and present danger to the U.S. economy. Advanced countries that borrow in their own currencies can and often do run up large debts without drastic consequences — which is why the debt panic of a few years ago was always nonsense.Yet Trump’s twin deficits tell us a lot about both the tweeter in chief and his party — namely, that they’re both dishonest and ignorant.[Paul Krugman did explanatory journalism before it was cool, moving from a career as a world-class economist to writing hard-hitting opinion columns. For an even deeper look at what’s on his mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]About the dishonesty: Is there anyone left who believes that Republicans ever really cared about debt and deficits? The truth is that the phoniness of their fiscal posturing should have been obvious all along.In any case, at this point it’s undeniable that their fire-and-brimstone debt rhetoric was nothing but a pose, an attempt to weaponize the deficit as a way to block and undermine President Barack Obama’s agenda. The moment they had a chance, the very politicians who grandstanded about the need for fiscal responsibility rammed through a huge tax cut for corporations and the wealthy — a tax cut that is the main reason for the exploding budget deficit.Oh, and the tax cut has utterly failed to deliver the promised investment boom. Companies didn’t use their giant windfall to build new plants and raise productivity, they used it to buy back a lot of stock, passing the gains on to wealthy investors.What about the ignorance? As many people have pointed out to no avail, Trump is all wrong about what trade deficits do. True, at times of high unemployment deficits can cost us jobs. But in normal times they don’t reduce overall employment, nor do they make us poorer. On the contrary, other countries are sending us valuable goods and services, which we’re paying for with pieces of paper — paper that pays very low interest rates. Who’s winning, again?Beyond that, however, Trump is completely wrong about what causes trade deficits in the first place. In fact, his own policies have provided an object lesson in the falsity of his vision.In the Trumpian universe, trade deficits happen because we made bad deals — we let foreigners sell their stuff here, but they won’t let us sell our stuff there. So the solution is to throw up barriers to foreign products. “I am a Tariff Man,” he proudly proclaimed.The reality, however, is that trade deficits have almost nothing to do with tariffs or other restrictions on trade. The overall trade deficit is always equal to the difference between domestic investment spending and domestic saving (both private and public). That’s just accounting. The reason America runs persistent trade deficits isn’t that we’ve given away too much in trade deals, it’s that we have low savings compared with other countries.Tariffs can, of course, reduce imports of the goods subject to the tariff, and hence reduce the trade deficit in that particular industry. But it’s like pushing on a balloon: You can squeeze it in one place, but it will just inflate by the same amount somewhere else. The process through which this conservation of deficits takes place can vary, although a stronger dollar, which hurts exports, is usually one major channel. But the basic result, that tariffs don’t actually reduce the overall trade deficit, is clear.Sure enough, the Trump tariffs of 2018 did, in fact, lead to a sharp fall in imports of the goods subjected to tariffs. But imports of other goods rose, while exports performed poorly. And the overall trade deficit went up substantially, which is exactly what you should have expected. After all, that big tax cut for the wealthy reduced national savings.And the supposed cause of the deficit isn’t the only thing Trump gets wrong about trade policy. He also keeps insisting that foreigners are paying his tariffs. In reality, prices received by foreign exporters haven’t gone down. Prices paid by U.S. consumers have gone up, instead.Again, the swelling trade deficit doesn’t pose any immediate threat to the U.S. economy. And even the Trumpian trade war has probably done only limited economic harm; the main damage is to U.S. credibility.But Trump’s twin deficits show that his party has been lying about its policy priorities, and that he is completely clueless about his signature policy issue. Luckily, a great nation like America can survive a lot, including dishonesty and ignorance at the top.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.
@PaulKrugman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A29 of the New York edition with the headline: Tariff Man Has Become Deficit Man. 

Opinion | Oversight, Not Overreach - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Oversight, Not OverreachAdvertisementOpinionSupported byOversight, Not OverreachPresidential harassment, Mr. Trump? Nope. Congress is doing its job.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 8, 2019ImageCreditCreditMichael George HaddadFor some weeks, President Trump has been in a swivet about “presidential harassment” — or, as the practice is more commonly known, congressional oversight of the executive branch.He was up before dawn on Thursday, tweeting that the House Intelligence Committee’s new inquiry into his financial dealings with foreign actors constituted “Unlimited Presidential Harassment.”So perturbed is Mr. Trump by any effort to hold him accountable that he used his State of the Union speech to complain of what he called “ridiculous, partisan investigations,” warning, “If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesn’t work that way!”This is precisely how it works — how it has to work, in fact. A president whose administration does not have the confidence of the people cannot govern effectively, or legitimately. Accountability is crucial to that confidence — something the nation’s founders grasped, even if Mr. Trump does not.Or, as Richard Nixon put it in 1973, “People have got to know whether or not their president is a crook.”The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, who has spent much time of late giving Mr. Trump lessons in governing and adulting, moved to clarify the concept: “It’s not investigation; it’s oversight,” she noted on Wednesday. “It’s our congressional responsibility, and if we didn’t do it, we would be delinquent in our duties.”Exposing corruption and malfeasance in the Trump administration promises to be a heavy lift. But Pelosi & Co. have long been preparing to dig into questions about such things as: the separation of migrant families at the southern border; the use of military personnel at the border; relief efforts in Puerto Rico following Hurricane Maria; the rollback of environmental regulations; the financial and legal undermining of Obamacare. On Thursday, the Ways and Means Committee opened hearings aimed at paving the way for the demand of Mr. Trump’s tax returns, which, if made public, could open a dozen new lines of inquiry, including whether the president is using his office for personal gain. That is neither ridiculous nor partisan.Not that presidential harassment isn’t a real concern. One need only look back at the Obama era to see how oversight can be hijacked by partisan zeal. Remember Operation Fast and Furious? Solyndra? Politics at the I.R.S.? Whatever legitimate concerns arose from these probes got lost in the mad-dog antics of Darrell Issa, then the chairman of the House Oversight Committee. Mr. Issa went so overboard in his crusade to destroy Barack Obama that he rendered his committee a partisan joke, alienating even fellow Republicans.And who can forget the multiyear investigation of the 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya? The House Republican leader, Kevin McCarthy, now loudly bemoaning Democratic oversight as partisan pettiness, had a far different take in 2015, when he boasted that the Benghazi circus was part of “a strategy to fight and win”: “Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right?” he told Sean Hannity of Fox News. “But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping.”Democrats face the same temptations to overreach, though many of the new committee heads say they learned from the excesses of their Republican predecessors. Thus the decision to hold hearings on presidential tax returns before anyone starts firing off subpoenas to the White House.Still, it makes sense for Mr. Trump to be antsy about the strange, new experience of being held accountable. At least he can take comfort in not having to go through it alone. Just at the cabinet level, Democrats are also looking at:Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, who is scheduled next month to testify about whether he lied to Congress regarding his role in adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census.Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, whose personal financial dealings are being scrutinized, as is his department’s decision to ease sanctions on companies tied to the Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska.Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, who grudgingly trudged up to Capitol Hill on Friday to discuss the peculiar circumstances of how he came to be in charge of the Justice Department — and, specifically, of the Russia probe, which he has openly criticized.The recently departed interior secretary, Ryan Zinke, who remains under investigation by Congress, his former department’s inspector general, and the Department of Justice, for a range of possible stumbles, including misusing government resources, making policy decisions based on political considerations, and lying to federal investigators.Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, whom multiple committees are eager to grill about her deregulation of for-profit colleges, rewrite of campus sexual-assault policies and handling of the student-debt crisis.The former Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt, whose cavalcade of grifts continues to intrigue both Congress and the agency’s inspector general.So while the next couple of years may indeed prove vexing for the president, he should focus on the big picture. Oversight is not the same as harassment. And, so long as Mr. Trump has nothing to hide, the public will feel much more confident in his leadership once some of the more disturbing questions have been answered.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Harassment? Nope. Oversight.. 

SpaceX and NASA to Test Launch Crew Dragon, a New Ride to Orbit - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexScienceSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperScience|SpaceX and NASA to Test Launch Crew Dragon, a New Ride to OrbitAdvertisementSupported bySpaceX and NASA to Test Launch Crew Dragon, a New Ride to OrbitNo astronauts will be on board for the Saturday launch, but the capsule could carry crew to the space station later in the year.ImageA SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket with the Crew Dragon module attached to its top, rolling out of the SpaceX hangar at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center Launch Complex 39A in Florida last month.CreditCreditAgence France-Presse — Getty ImagesBy Kenneth ChangFeb. 28, 2019The space shuttle Atlantis rolled to a stop on a runway at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida on July 21, 2011, its last flight. That ended an era of American spacecraft carrying astronauts to space.“Mission complete, Houston,” said Christopher J. Ferguson, the mission commander. “After serving the world for over 30 years, the space shuttle has earned its place in history, and it’s come to a final stop.”Nearly eight years later, a replacement for the space shuttles is finally on the launchpad, not far from where Atlantis landed. During that time, NASA astronauts have flown to the International Space Station aboard Russian Soyuz spacecraft.Reflecting a new reliance on the private sector, NASA hired two companies, SpaceX and Boeing, to design and build transportation for its astronauts.[Here’s how to follow the SpaceX Crew Dragon launch.]After years of delays, the first of those systems — SpaceX’s Crew Dragon capsule — is scheduled for liftoff on Saturday at 2:49 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on top of one of the company’s Falcon 9 rockets. Forecasts call for an 80 percent chance of favorable weather.“This is an invaluable exercise for us to learn in the space environment how these systems will be working,” said Kathryn Lueders, the manager of NASA’s Commercial Crew program, during a news conference on Thursday.[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]The capsule is not yet ready for astronauts, but the flight is intended as an end-to-end test, doing everything that one with astronauts would do, including docking with the International Space Station early Sunday morning. Then on March 8, it is to leave the space station, and parachute into the Atlantic Ocean a few hours later.During a previous news conference last week, William H. Gerstenmaier, the NASA official who oversees the human spaceflight program, said problems were to be expected. “I guarantee everything will not work exactly right, and that’s cool,” Mr. Gerstenmaier said. “That’s exactly what we want to do. We want to maximize our learning so we can get this stuff ready so when we put crew on, we’re ready to go do a real crew mission, and it’ll be the right safety for our crews.”A subsequent flight with people aboard could come later this year. Boeing’s first test flight for its capsule, named Starliner, could be launched as soon as next month.The Crew Dragon is an upgraded, sleeker version of the SpaceX Dragon capsule that has been taking cargo to the space station since 2012. ImageThe space shuttle Atlantis touching down at the Kennedy Space Center on July 21, 2011, its final flight.CreditPhilip Scott Andrews/The New York TimesCrew Dragon’s powerful thrusters serve as part of the escape system to power astronauts to safety in case of a problem with the rocket. It also has the ability to autonomously dock with the space station, instead of relying on an astronaut aboard the station to grab and guide the capsule with the station’s robotic arm.The SpaceX capsule also includes up to seven seats and consoles displaying information for the astronauts. For this flight, one of the seats will be occupied with a sort of artificial person — what NASA calls an A.T.D. or “anthropomorphic test device” — which will be wearing a SpaceX spacesuit. The device includes sensors to measure forces and accelerations that a person would experience on the trip.The SpaceX engineers named it Ripley, after the heroine in the Alien movies played by Sigourney Weaver.Similar to how SpaceX broadcast video of a spacesuit-clad “Starman” in a Tesla roadster launched by its Falcon Heavy rocket last year, there will be cameras inside the Crew Dragon capsule. “It will give you a perspective that you would have if you were inside,” said Hans Koenigsmann, SpaceX’s vice president for build and flight reliability.SpaceX has faced scrutiny for decisions like planning for the crew to be onboard while the rocket is fueled. In the past, NASA has considered that too risky, but SpaceX prefers to use supercooled liquid oxygen and kerosene, which are more efficient but cannot remain at those temperatures for very long. Fueling begins just 35 minutes before liftoff.The space agency has tentatively approved SpaceX’s approach, known as “load and go.” “We came to the conclusion that this was an acceptable risk that we were willing to take,” said Patrick G. Forrester, chief of NASA’s astronaut office.Other issues still to be resolved before a crewed flight include certification of the parachutes and fixing a design issue with the thrusters where pieces can break off if they get too cold. Russia, the main partner on the International Space Station, also raised concerns that the Crew Dragon did not have a backup system to steer the capsule away if the main computer were to fail. But on Thursday, NASA officials said they had managed to allay those worries by adding precautionary measures.If there are additional delays, NASA may buy more Soyuz seats from the Russians.When the Obama administration announced the beginnings of the commercial crew program in 2009, NASA already had plans to develop a much more expensive rocket, the Ares I, as part of a project to send astronauts back to the moon. But the NASA rockets, and the moon program, were canceled.The Trump administration is again interested in the moon, but is keeping the commercial approach.By themselves, the Boeing and SpaceX spacecraft do not push NASA any farther out into the solar systems; both are designed only to go to low-Earth orbit, the same trip that the Soyuz has been making for decades.The hope that commercial rides to space could spur a new space industry has also not yet materialized. However, NASA appears to be applying a similar approach to new programs, including a call to private companies to develop spacecraft to take astronauts to the surface of the moon. That could lead to unexpected outcomes in the space business.“I think we’re at a Wright brothers moment for commercial space,” Phil Larson, who served as a space adviser in the Obama White House and is now an assistant dean at the University of Colorado’s College of Engineering and Applied Science, said in an interview. “We’ll have a new fleet of American spacecraft. Anything is possible, and I think markets will show up.”Recent reporting on commercial space effortsNASA Names Astronauts for Boeing and SpaceX Flights to International Space StationAug. 3, 2018NASA Chooses Private Companies for Future Moon LandingsNov. 29, 2018How Many Space Stations Does This Planet Need?Oct. 22, 2018Rocket Lab’s Modest Launch Is Giant Leap for Small Rocket BusinessNov. 10, 2018Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.
@kchangnyt A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: NASA Preparing to Test Shiny New Ride to Orbit. 

Opinion | U.S. Policies Toward Migrants at the Border - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|U.S. Policies Toward Migrants at the BorderAdvertisementOpinionSupported bylettersU.S. Policies Toward Migrants at the BorderReaders discuss the resignation of Kirstjen Nielsen and President Trump’s recent comments about cracking down on immigration.April 8, 2019Image CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesTo the Editor:Re “Kirstjen Nielsen Enforced Cruelty at the Border. Her Replacement Could Be Worse” (editorial, nytimes.com, April 7):Nancy Pelosi said of Kirstjen Nielsen’s departure as homeland security secretary, “It is deeply alarming that the Trump administration official who put children in cages is reportedly resigning because she is not extreme enough for the White House’s liking.” Madam Speaker paints this entire nightmare in a few brief descriptive strokes. This pretty much sums up the entire Trump immigration policy. What more really needs to be said?Marge KellerChicagoTo the Editor:Re “Stoking Anti-Semitism Fears, Trump Courts Jews” (news article, April 7):In your report on President Trump’s speech to the Republican Jewish Coalition, you quote him saying of asylum seekers: “You can’t come in. Our country is full. What can we do? We can’t handle any more.” Apparently the speech was received with “raucous applause and cheers.” Really? Is memory so short that people have forgotten the St. Louis, a ship carrying more than 900 Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany that was turned away?John WiseGuerneville, Calif.To the Editor:In “Mr. Trump’s Terrible Border ‘Solutions’” (editorial, April 2), you claim that the Trump administration is “shooting America in the foot” by threatening to close the border with Mexico (now delayed) and cut off aid to Central American countries. Both of my parents were immigrants and waited years for citizenship. They did not just show up at the border and seek asylum. Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement lack the resources to protect our borders. Subsidies to El Salvador have not helped with the problem of illegal immigration. Even President Barack Obama’s homeland security secretary, Jeh Johnson, acknowledges that there is a crisis on our border.We need to deal with this problem. Why should we be giving aid to countries that have no strategic importance to us?We should instead redirect funds from those countries to our border security agencies. A wall is not a solution, but neither is giving money to Central American countries. Timothy ZranovEnglewood, Colo.To the Editor:Re “A Grand Compromise on Immigration,” by Peter King and Tom Suozzi (Op-Ed, March 25): Representatives King and Suozzi are to be commended for at least proposing a bipartisan solution to immigration reform. Opening a dialogue is the first step toward this solution. But their proposed $2,000 fee — which is the linchpin for funding their initiative — seems to bring us back to the issue of income inequality. The requirement that an undocumented person pay a $2,000 fee “to qualify for protection” appears to exclude those with fragile financial resources who simply cannot afford the fee. Like the poll tax, this fee requirement is not consistent with America’s democratic principles. It should not be part of legislation.Congress has a moral obligation to appropriate the necessary funds for administrative costs, border security and Central American aid without having to split the affected population into the haves and have-nots.Robert KleinNew YorkA version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Policies Toward Migrants at the Border. 

Breaking the TV News Mold - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexFashionSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperFashion|Breaking the TV News MoldAdvertisementSupported byBreaking the TV News MoldToday’s broadcast and cable news pundits are both independent thinkers and independent dressers.ImageSunny Hostin, an ABC News correspondent and a host of "The View."CreditCreditAmy Lombard for The New York TimesBy Teddy TinsonMarch 14, 2019One day in January, Sunny Hostin, an ABC News senior legal correspondent and a host of “The View,” was sitting behind a desk on the “Nightline” soundstage talking to the ABC News correspondent Linsey Davis about a Purdue University “rape by fraud” case. She was wearing a tropical print wrap dress with blouson sleeves, a small gold “S” pendant necklace and a flowing mane of honey-colored, stadium-concert-ready curls. “People think if you’re too glamorous, you must not be smart,” she had said in an interview in her office a few weeks earlier. A lawyer and former federal prosecutor who has won three Emmys — two for her work as a “Good Morning America” correspondent and a third for “The President and the People,” an ABC News special on Barack Obama — Ms. Hostin is doing her best to change all that.Along with two other former lawyers, Zerlina Maxwell, 37, who is an MSNBC political analyst, and Maya Wiley, 55, an NBC News and MSNBC legal analyst, Ms. Hostin, 50, represents the new face of political news punditry. Traditionally defined by news media personalities like Megyn Kelly and Kimberly Guilfoyle in bright-and-tight sleeveless sheaths, or besuited broadcast journalists like Diane Sawyer and Katie Couric, the image is ripe for reinvention, and women like Ms. Hostin, Ms. Maxwell and Ms. Wiley are challenging the antiquated aesthetics of the television workplace.And they’re ready to air their views. “For people with the access, you have to share the information,” Ms. Hostin said. “I’m just trying to kick open the doors.” These are edited excerpts from individual conversations with the three women.Is there a network “look”?Ms. Wiley: TV news is very risk-averse in terms of pushing any boundaries. I would describe my style as “boho meets B.A.P.” I have both of those aspects going. I was the young lawyer who refused to look like a lawyer, so I would go to sample sales all the time. I had a pink outfit — a soft, petal pink — that was jammin’! It was a boat-neck knit dress and matching blazer, bought separately. The hem was a little short, so I’d wear it with chocolate tights and a funky shoe.Ms. Hostin: “The View” is about being unique. Whatever you’re comfortable in, that’s what works. Sometimes, in the business of hard news or as a legal authority, your looks can work against you: You’re a woman of color, you look young. Now, because I’ve been working for so long, people know my pedigree. I can wear the leopard shoes. I don’t think it’s a distraction from what I’m saying. I think it adds to it. And over the three seasons or so that I’ve been at “The View,” I’ve become pretty fearless in my style, with a range of designers that includes Altuzarra, Balmain, Erdem and Proenza Schouler. But I make style mistakes. That’s the fun of it.ImageMaya Wiley, an NBC News and MSNBC legal analyst.CreditAmy Lombard for The New York TimesDo viewers really care?Ms. Hostin: We get hundreds of requests on social media every day. People want to know everything, even nail polish colors. I use Kerry Washington’s manicurist. We’re thinking about doing a style shot every day and posting credits because we can’t answer them all individually. But it’s wonderful that people want to know.Ms. Wiley: The attention is flattering, but for me, it’s about drawing the viewer’s eye, and there’s positive and negative attention. Even if they like your outfit, or hairstyle, or accessories, when I hear, “I love your earrings,” that’s a bad metric for me. I love big earrings, but I don’t wear them on air. I don’t wear necklaces on air. It draws people’s attention away, and they stop listening to the message. Ms. Maxwell: If you’re walking around in this body, as a black woman, as a woman of color, people respond to how they think you are, even if you haven’t opened your mouth. When I interviewed Hillary Clinton for a SiriusXM town hall in 2017, I wore the pleated metallic green skirt I’m wearing today. Instead of today’s “We Out!— Harriet Tubman” T-shirt, I wore “Phenomenal Woman — Maya Angelou.” Huma Abedin said, “I like your outfit,” and it was the best compliment ever. It’s supercool when I get emails or messages from people who say, “I showed your hair to my child because I want her to see somebody in media who has her hair so she can be proud of having big, curly hair.” No matter the texture, too.Is there a double standard for women?Ms. Maxwell: I have to sit in the makeup chair for one hour before every segment to be “presentable” for TV, while the man sits in the chair for four minutes for powder. I don’t have an official stylist, but a stylist/interior designer friend sends me Pinterest boards of things I should buy. Samhita Mukhopadhyay, the Teen Vogue executive editor, is a good friend, and I pick up inspiration from her, too. And I keep a rotation of Rent the Runway Unlimited in my office, just in case.Ms. Hostin: As a woman, as a woman of color, I have to fit into this box of what success looks like or smarts look like. They used to say, “Dress for the job you want,” but I see a lot of people get those jobs, and they weren’t dressing for them. It really bothers me because I feel I’ve had to work twice as hard to get half as far. I can’t get past it. Joy [Behar] says, “That really gets to you, doesn’t it?” And it does. I don’t know that I’ll ever be able to reconcile that.Is hair an issue?Ms. Hostin: Once I became comfortable at CNN, and once my contract was renewed, I was off to the races: curly hair, hair back, whatever I wanted to do. Anderson Cooper was always very good about letting me do that. I was wearing my hair curly, then one day I straightened it, and right after my segment, I got a call from an executive. They said, “This is your look!” This was 2012 or so. It was a not-so-subtle way of saying, “Don’t do the other thing anymore.” I wondered, “Why is this ‘my look’?”Ms. Maxwell: When you work in predominantly white spaces, especially in news, and you change your hair, it’s a thing. People touch you, and they ask crazy questions. I started out in television with the 18-inch Indian Remi hair that everyone has. For me, it was an evolution, personally. I had to get to the point where I was comfortable enough to take my hair out: “This is how my hair looks, and it’s this big. and I’m letting it be bigger.” It’s been a cool experience. Once, on “Today,” a hairstylist, a black woman, saw me backstage and said: “Come over here. Do you mind if I make your Afro a little bigger?” She took that expensive Dyson dryer and in two seconds blows the roots out, and it’s big. Then I went out on “Megyn Kelly,” and I was like, “Yes, I wish I could do it myself!” I want my Afro to be as big as possible.ImageZerlina Maxwell, an MSNBC political analyst.CreditDolly Faibyshev for The New York TimesMs. Wiley: My daughters and I have this joke. Ever since Solange Knowles came out with “Don’t Touch My Hair,” I feel like I should carry that around with me and just hit play. I still get people asking to touch my hair — on the street, absolutely. Or they say, “Those are nice braids.” They’re not braids.Ms. Maxwell: I never received pushback from anyone about my hair. I like my face better this way, but everyone has their own journey. I don’t necessary look at it like it’s a political statement. I’m just as radical as I was when I had the weave. I think it’s amazing when I see women of color wearing curly hair — natural or wigs — because after so long being told otherwise, black women see coarser texture as an aspirational.Did you have a role model?Ms. Hostin: I check in with Robin Roberts — she is fearless, she’s a sage. She has been in this business a long time, and I ask her a lot of questions. Tamron Hall, we met through Don Lemon. Don is not one of the girls, but he’s so interesting. We used to fight all the time, but he watches the show every day and will text me during the show about anything from my hair to my clothing to something I said, or something someone else said. Soledad [O’Brien], Joy Reid. It’s almost like Black Girl Magic News Mafia. We check in with each other.Ms. Maxwell: I definitely looked up to Melissa Harris-Perry, Joy Reid and Karen Finney. And I wouldn’t be here unless Donna Brazile existed. She was the first black woman I saw on TV doing political commentary. I would sit on my couch and practice how I might respond to questions. I have a lot of J. Crew because of Michelle Obama. I saw her speak in Harlem in July 2008, and it was a galvanizing moment that led to me becoming a field organizer for the 2008 Obama presidential campaign. And I definitely watch what Meghan Markle is wearing. I bought the Everlane leather tote I’m carrying today because of her.Ms. Wiley: The truth is, you always take cues, but how conscious are you of them? It was always a conscious decision not to color my hair. Elaine Jones, the first woman to be director of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, became a mentor, really took me under her wing and taught me how to lobby. Brilliant brain, and when I caught up with her years later, she had a beautiful head of silver hair.My hair started getting really gray maybe three years ago. My daughters, 15 and 18, both jumped on it. “Mom, it’s time.” Time for what? “It’s time to dye your hair!” Then I started saying, “I earned every last one of these.” I turned it into an attitude! For anyone who doesn’t fit into traditional categories, when you see people showing up on big traditional platforms, it all seems possible.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Plenty of Substance. A Lot of Style.. 

Senate Has Votes to Overturn Trump’s Emergency Declaration - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Senate Has Votes to Overturn Trump’s Emergency DeclarationAdvertisementSupported bySenate Has Votes to Overturn Trump’s Emergency Declaration The Senate is poised to rebuke President Trump’s national emergency declaration at the southwestern border. The only question: how big the Senate margin will be. ImageThe Senate will vote this month on a resolution that could end President Trump's national emergency at the southern border. CreditCreditGuillermo Arias/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesBy Emily CochraneMarch 4, 2019With Senator Rand Paul’s decision to support a resolution to block President Trump’s emergency declaration, Congress appears ready to deliver a stern rebuke to the president over his border wall and a clear statement that it will defend its ability to control federal spending.Senator Paul, a libertarian-minded Kentuckian, said he will join fellow Republican Senators Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Thom Tillis of North Carolina, giving proponents of the resolution of disapproval the 51 votes they need, if Democrats remain united in their support.On Monday, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, confirmed that the measure has the votes to pass the Senate. Senate leadership, he said, has been conferring with the Senate parliamentarian to see if the House-passed resolution could be amended before the vote. “It’s an interesting question,” Mr. McConnell said at a news conference in Kentucky. “It’s never been done before.”The measure, outlined in the National Emergencies Act, is the simplest way for Congress to end a president’s national emergency declaration. Mr. Trump has said he will veto it, and neither chamber is likely to muster the two-thirds majority needed to overturn the veto. But the plaintiffs in multiple lawsuits will most likely seize upon a congressional repudiation as support for their argument that, in declaring a national emergency to take money for his wall that was not appropriated by Congress, Mr. Trump is subverting the Constitution, which grants Congress clear control over federal spending. The remaining question: How stern a rebuke will the Senate deliver?Here’s what to watch for as more Republican senators prepare to announce how they will vote on the resolution.The Pragmatists: Not from my backyard. ImageSenator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a Republican, said Mr Trump should use money already approved by Congress for the wall.CreditErin Schaff/The New York TimesMr. Trump is hoping to divert $3.6 billion from military construction projects to his cherished wall at the southwestern border, effectively subverting lawmakers and the budget they set. Members of the Senate Appropriations Committee, who pride themselves on bipartisanship, have raised concern that Mr. Trump is taking funds that were carefully doled out after months of negotiation in the bill that he signed last month to fund the government through Sept. 30. His declaration marks the first time the National Emergency Act has been invoked because Congress has denied the president funds. Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said the president should use funds already approved by Congress, for instance from Defense Department accounts to support interdiction of illegal drugs.“It avoids taking money for military construction projects specifically approved by Congress such as military barracks and hospitals,” Mr. Alexander said in a speech on the Senate floor Thursday. “And it also avoids months or years of litigation, which could make it unlikely the full 234 miles are ever built.”Others like Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona, have said that they are seeking assurances that key military construction projects will not be affected. In a private lunch with Vice President Mike Pence last week, lawmakers asked for details about what projects would be affected. The Defense Department has not released that information. Senator Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri and another member of the Appropriations Committee, has also expressed misgivings about Mr. Trump upsetting the panel’s handiwork.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]The Strict Constitutionalists: Not in Congress’s lane. ImageSenator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, speculated that lawsuits challenging the emergency declaration could reach the Supreme Court.CreditErin Schaff/The New York TimesMultiple Republican senators have expressed unease about the precedent set by the declaration and the potential that a future Democratic president could use a national emergency declaration for liberal purposes, once Congress forfeits its exclusive, constitutionally granted power of the purse.Senators Marco Rubio of Florida, Ted Cruz of Texas, and Mike Lee of Utah have all voiced concern on the constitutional question, though none of them has explicitly promised to overturn the emergency declaration. Mr. Tillis, in an opinion piece published in The Washington Post outlining his argument, warned that conservatives needed to consider what some of the current Democratic presidential candidates would do with a national emergency: implement parts of the Green New Deal to address climate change, or limit access to guns to address gun violence, among other possibilities. Even Mr. McConnell acknowledged Monday that the precedent was a concern and was part of the reason he had previously “argued, obviously without success, that the president not take this route.”Supporters of the declaration say that the president is within his rights to use powers that Congress gave him through the National Emergencies Act in the 1970s. “Using this authority is not and was not my preferred choice,” said Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, speaking Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union.”But Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, in an opinion piece on Fox News published late Sunday, was clear: “In September of 2014, I had these words to say: ‘The president acts like he's a king. He ignores the Constitution. He arrogantly says, 'If Congress will not act, then I must,’” Mr. Paul wrote, adding, “I would literally lose my political soul if I decided to treat President Trump different than President Obama.”Even Mr. McConnell, the first to endorse Mr. Trump’s declaration, declined earlier this week to weigh in on the legality of the measure.“We’re in the process of weighing that,” Mr. McConnell said when asked at a news conference on Tuesday. “I haven’t reached a total conclusion.”The Politically Vulnerable: Not this year, please.ImageSenator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, is among the key targets for Democrats looking to reclaim a Senate majority in the 2020 elections. CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesRepublican senators facing a difficult re-election campaign next year are confronting a dilemma: Stick with Mr. Trump’s core voters or side with swing voters who largely oppose the wall and the emergency declaration to fund it. Senator Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado, hailing from a state that voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012, may be the most vulnerable Republican up for re-election next year, and he has not declared where he stands on the resolution of disapproval.Nor has Ms. McSally, another targeted Republican up for election next year for the seat she was appointed to fill after John McCain’s death. Two other Republicans targeted by Democrats, Ms. Collins and Mr. Tillis, have come down on the side of opposing the emergency declaration.A vote supporting the resolution, framed as a defense of Congress’s constitutional power of the purse — or conversely, a vote in support of Mr. Trump’s policies and use of executive power — could sway voters. Emily Cochrane is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress. She was raised in Miami and graduated from the University of Florida.
@ESCochrane A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Senate Is Poised to Reject Border Emergency. 

The Use of Private Email and Chats, This Time by Trump’s Family, Comes Under Fire - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|The Use of Private Email and Chats, This Time by Trump’s Family, Comes Under FireAdvertisementSupported byThe Use of Private Email and Chats, This Time by Trump’s Family, Comes Under FireImageQuestions have been raised about how Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, both aides to President Trump, have used private communications in their government roles.CreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesBy Maggie Haberman and Annie KarniMarch 22, 2019WASHINGTON — In the waning days of the 2016 presidential campaign, Donald J. Trump turned his focus to the F.B.I. investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server when she was secretary of state, suggesting it was “bigger than Watergate.”“Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional and purposeful,” he said at a rally in Phoenix. “Hillary set up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding her criminal conduct from public disclosure and exposure, knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk.”Democrats now charge that Mr. Trump’s eldest daughter and her husband, who both serve as aides to the president, did the same things he pilloried Mrs. Clinton for doing.The basis for their accusations was the letter Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, sent on Thursday to Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, saying that Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, has used WhatsApp, an unofficial encrypted messaging service, to communicate with foreign contacts about official White House business.Mr. Cummings also said that Ivanka Trump, the president’s eldest daughter, did not preserve some emails that were sent to her private account, as she claimed in the past, contradicting her own previous claims and possibly violating federal records laws.It is not the first time that questions have been raised about how Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner have used private communications in their government roles. Both have used personal email accounts to communicate with other White House officials and cabinet secretaries about official business. But the irony of the new accusations was savored by Mrs. Clinton’s former aides.“For his endless faults, Jared should at least know what chutzpah means,” said Philippe Reines, a top adviser to Mrs. Clinton, referring to the Yiddish word meaning “gall.”“And while there’s no specific Yiddish word for continuing the practice even after the Democrats took control of the House, ‘mashugana’ fits,” Mr. Reines said, referring to the word meaning “crazy.”Mr. Cummings based his findings about Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner on what the committee had been told by the couple’s lawyer, Abbe Lowell. But Mr. Lowell insisted in a letter to the committee that Mr. Cummings was twisting his statements and that he had not said what had been claimed.A spokeswoman for the committee said that it was confident in the facts described and that “if Mr. Lowell would like to produce any documents to aid in our investigation, then the committee is open to receiving that information.”Republican members of the House Oversight Committee who attended the meeting with Mr. Lowell said in an internal memo late Friday that Mr. Cummings’s letter “falsely maligned” Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner. They said he had misconstrued and mischaracterized what Mr. Lowell said. In their recollections, they said, Mr. Lowell described the government-related emails as minimal, said they were all preserved and said that no classified material had been sent.And they rejected comparisons to Mrs. Clinton, saying she set up her private server specifically to evade records requests.Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner in the past have insisted that there was “no equivalency” between Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server, while she served as secretary of state, and their use of private email accounts to conduct some of their government affairs.ImageDuring the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server while secretary of state was “bigger than Watergate.”CreditTodd Heisler/The New York Times“Everything’s been preserved, everything’s been archived, there just is no equivalency between the two things,” Ms. Trump said in an interview with “Good Morning America” last year, after initial reports that she had used a personal email account for government work.But Mr. Cummings’s letter suggested that there was reason to believe that was not the case.The disclosures about Mr. Kushner’s and Ms. Trump’s methods of communication raise questions not just about whether they violated the federal law in not preserving their communications but whether they shared classified information on their nongovernment accounts — the same kinds of charges that Mr. Trump thought disqualified his 2016 opponent and were enough to put her in jail.“The more serious issue may be not so much that there has been a violation of the Presidential Records Act, but the reason for a decision to circumvent it,” said Robert F. Bauer, who served as White House counsel for former President Barack Obama. “That is the red flag.”A White House official insisted that Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump had never improperly handled classified material.In the past, Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner have claimed that they were not familiar with the rules that applied to them. Yet current and former White House officials familiar with the guidance that all aides there are given have said the two were given ample warning. That includes warnings about using chat apps, which are supposed to be prohibited for government business.The couple has continued to balk at the notion that there are similarities in their circumstances with Mrs. Clinton’s. There are some differences, but there are also a lot of equivalencies, according to lawyer familiar with federal record keeping.Mrs. Clinton’s case occurred under the Federal Records Act and regulations promulgated by the State Department. Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump’s case, in contrast, concerns the Presidential Records Act, which was passed in 1978 after the Watergate scandal and declares that all presidential records are public property. The most important thing it did, according to attorneys, was prohibit the destruction of records that are described as private.Mr. Lowell said at the time that he did not know if Mr. Kushner had communicated classified information on the messaging service, WhatsApp, telling lawmakers that was “above my pay grade.” He argued that Mr. Kushner took screenshots of the communications and sent them to his official White House account or the National Security Council and had therefore not violated federal records laws.But Mrs. Clinton’s former aides said they were not willing to give Mr. Kushner, in particular, the benefit of the doubt.“WhatsApp has two main uses: you’re trying to save on international data charges or you’re trying to hide your communications and circumvent the law,” said Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton. “I think it’s pretty clear which of these appeals to Jared Kushner.”Brian Fallon, who served as Mrs. Clinton’s press secretary during the 2016 campaign, said he thought “Kushner is not above lying to his own lawyers for the purposes of navigating a tricky PR situation. The idea he faithfully took screenshots is probably bogus.”Mr. Fallon, who also served as a Justice Department spokesman in the Obama administration, said that Congress could ask Facebook for proof that Mr. Kushner took screenshots of his messages, and that the White House could also investigate whether those screen grabs exist on its servers.“This is not something the country should have to take Jared Kushner and his lawyers’ words for,” he said.The former Clinton aides also cited Mr. Kushner’s omission of dozens of meetings with foreign leaders, including Russian contacts, on the forms required to gain a top-secret security clearance, an omission his lawyer at the time called a clerical error. And Mr. Lowell, in a statement, implied that someone in the White House misled him when he claimed that Mr. Trump did not intervene to grant him his clearance, although he did not specify who.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Use of Private Email and Chats, but This Time by the President’s Family. 

U.S. Expands Anti-Abortion Policies With New Overseas Funding Rules - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|U.S. Expands Anti-Abortion Policies With New Overseas Funding RulesAdvertisementSupported byU.S. Expands Anti-Abortion Policies With New Overseas Funding RulesImageThe move, announced by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Tuesday, builds on a 2017 announcement by the Trump administration that it was reinstating and expanding the so-called Mexico City policy.CreditCreditErik S Lesser/EPA, via ShutterstockBy Edward WongMarch 26, 2019WASHINGTON — The Trump administration will withhold funding from foreign nongovernmental organizations that give money to foreign groups that perform abortions, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Tuesday.In an expansion of the administration’s anti-abortion policies, Mr. Pompeo also said the government was “fully enforcing” a law that prohibits groups from using United States aid to lobby on abortion issues.“We will enforce a strict prohibition on backdoor funding schemes and end-runs around our policy,” Mr. Pompeo said. “American taxpayer dollars will not be used to underwrite abortions.”The move builds on a 2017 announcement by the Trump administration that it was reinstating and expanding the so-called Mexico City policy. The executive action dating to 1984 — and described by critics as the “global gag rule” — requires foreign nongovernmental organizations to refuse to perform abortions in exchange for receiving American funding.Democratic presidents, including Barack Obama, have issued memorandums through the years rescinding the rule, while Republican presidents have reinstated it; it has been in effect 19 of the last 34 years.Conservatives, Catholics and evangelical Christians who have long promoted anti-abortion policies and make up a core part of Mr. Trump’s voter base are especially outspoken on the issue. Mr. Pompeo is an evangelical Christian, as is Vice President Mike Pence.Politicians who have opposed the policies immediately criticized Mr. Pompeo’s announcement.“There is no end to the depths of the Trump administration’s cruelty,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said on Twitter. “Millions of women around the world rely on U.S.-funded health assistance — and millions more will be arbitrarily left without care due to this shameful decision by @SecPompeo.”Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York and chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, helped introduce legislation last month to reverse and prohibit the 2017 ban imposed by Mr. Trump. Some Republicans also support the proposal.“Once again the Trump administration has chosen ideology over sound policy,” Ms. Lowey said in a statement. “This morning’s announcement by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that the global gag rule will be further expanded is another slap in the face to women around the world.”In his announcement, Mr. Pompeo said American officials had become aware that a group under the Organization of American States had engaged in abortion rights advocacy. As a result, the State Department will now stipulate in assistance agreements that the diplomatic body must promise no American funds will be used to lobby for or against abortion.The United States would reduce funding to the organization as punishment, Mr. Pompeo added.“The institutions of the O.A.S. should be focused on addressing crises in Cuba, Nicaragua and in Venezuela, not on advancing the pro-abortion cause,” he said.There was no immediate response from the organization.A reporter pointed out to Mr. Pompeo that many groups that work on global health care issues argue that the policy leads to more pregnancies among rural women. Researchers have found that funding cuts affect groups that promote contraception use and other pregnancy prevention methods.“They’re just wrong,” Mr. Pompeo said.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Expands Anti-Abortion Policies. 

Net Neutrality Vote Passes House, Fulfilling Promise by Democrats - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexTechnologySubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperTechnology|Net Neutrality Vote Passes House, Fulfilling Promise by DemocratsAdvertisementSupported byNet Neutrality Vote Passes House, Fulfilling Promise by DemocratsImageSpeaker Nancy Pelosi advocating the return of net neutrality last month at an event in Washington. Though legislation passed the House on Wednesday, it faces obstacles in the Senate.CreditCreditJ. Scott Applewhite/Associated PressBy Cecilia KangApril 10, 2019WASHINGTON — The House passed legislation on Wednesday that would guarantee broadband internet users equal access to online content, in a crucial step toward bringing back so-called net neutrality regulations overturned at the start of the Trump administration.In a 232-to-190 vote, divided along party lines, the Democratic majority made good on a promise that became a rallying cry in many progressive circles during the 2018 election. It is also expected to be held up as an issue by Democrats in 2020.But the legislation, the Save the Internet Act, faces long odds in the Republican-led Senate. The Senate leader, Mitch McConnell, said this week that the legislation would be “dead on arrival.” Earlier this week, the Office of Management and Budget advised the White House to veto the law if it reached the president’s desk. The office said in a letter that since the law had been overturned, the broadband industry had thrived, a good sign of how deregulation helped the economy.The legislation would prohibit blocking and throttling web traffic and would categorize broadband as a service open to heavy regulation. Supporters say the regulation would prevent companies from blocking or slowing the delivery of content like videos. Opponents say it would strap broadband providers like Verizon and Comcast with heavy-handed restrictions, and could lead to price controls.“We need a law that puts a cop on the beat who will enforce the laws, because we can’t just rely on internet providers to say this will be a free and open internet,” Representative Frank Pallone, Democrat of New Jersey, said in an interview. “No one believes them.”ImageAjit Pai, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, rolled back net neutrality rules in 2017.CreditJacquelyn Martin/Associated PressThe Federal Communications Commission rolled back the country’s net neutrality rules in November 2017. Shortly after, internet companies and public interest groups sued to overturn the action, which was led by Ajit Pai, the agency’s chairman.In addition, more than two dozen states have raced to create their own net neutrality laws. The Justice Department and telecommunications companies have, in turn, sued to block the state efforts.Net neutrality, a regulatory idea hatched by academics, has been a decade-long battle pitting Silicon Valley and consumer groups against the telecommunications sector. Companies like Google, Mozilla and Facebook have argued that without rules, telecommunications companies can become gatekeepers of online content by choosing the quality of the delivery of web services in a way that could hurt rivals and consumers. The Obama administration sided with their argument, with the F.C.C. approving new regulations in 2015.Now, the companies are pushing for a law on the issue. A group of 120 start-ups, including Stripe, Medium, and GitHub, wrote a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders in support of the bill.“Net neutrality is fundamental to guaranteeing that every American has unencumbered access to the internet,” the companies wrote. “This access is also essential to a competitive, free market for the technology economy to thrive as well as entrepreneurship in this country.”The biggest disagreement between Republicans and Democrats is whether broadband should be considered a utility like phone service. Republicans say that doing so could lead to the possible regulation of broadband rates. Democrats say the categorization is an important update that recognizes the importance of broadband to the economy, culture and education.“Some in Congress are trying to give the government more control again, applying utility-style regulations that would threaten the internet as we know it. We should reject these efforts,” Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi, said on the Senate floor last week.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Net Neutrality Hope Revived, If Doubtfully, by Democrats. 

Opinion | Trump’s Nightmare Opponents - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Trump’s Nightmare OpponentsAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump’s Nightmare OpponentsAmy Klobuchar, Sherrod Brown and how to be a middle-class fighter.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistFeb. 10, 2019ImageSenator Amy Klobuchar announced her presidential candidacy on Sunday in Minneapolis.CreditCreditStephen Maturen/Getty ImagesA few weeks ago, the pollsters at Monmouth University asked Democrats across the country to choose between two different kinds of nominees. One was a candidate whom the voter agreed with on most issues but who might struggle to beat President Trump. The other was the reverse — a strong candidate with different views from those of the person being polled.It was a rout. About 56 percent preferred the more electable candidate, compared with 33 percent who picked the more ideologically in-sync candidate. The gap was even larger among women and liberal Democrats. Patrick Murray, who runs the Monmouth poll, points out that this pattern isn’t normal. In previous campaigns, voters cared more about ideology than electability.I think there are two main reasons for the switch. The first, of course, is the awfulness of the Trump presidency. But the less obvious reason is important too: The differences among most of the leading Democratic presidential candidates just aren’t very big right now.[Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter — with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.]They all favor policies to lift incomes and reduce living costs for the middle class and poor. They all favor tax increases on the rich. They all favor climate action, voting rights and expanded Medicare. Most voters understand that choosing a candidate with modestly different ideas about how to achieve these goals isn’t much of a sacrifice.So if Democrats wanted to identify their best hope for beating Trump, what would that candidate look like?Above all, it would be a candidate good at persuading Americans that he or she was on their side — on their side against the forces causing the stagnation of American living standards. More specifically, this candidate would be someone who could persuade swing voters of this allegiance.Swing voters still exist. Enough Americans switched from backing Barack Obama in 2012 to Donald Trump in 2016 to House Democrats in 2018 to help decide those elections. I understand why some Democratic activists are instead drawn to the idea of victory through turnout: It offers the promise of avoiding any political compromise. The problem is, there are virtually no examples of Democrats winning close races without emphasizing persuasion. The 2018 attempts, in Florida, Georgia and Texas, all fell short.Yet progressives shouldn’t despair — because swing voters are quite progressive, especially on economic issues. For years, we’ve been hearing about a kind of fantasy swing voter, conjured by political pundits and corporate chieftains, who is socially liberal and economically conservative (as many pundits and chieftains are). The actual swing voter leans decidedly left on economics, in favor of tax increases on the rich, opposed to Medicare cuts and skeptical of big business.Still, these swing voters don’t think of themselves as radical. They are typically patriotic and religious. Many think of themselves as moderate and, strange as it may sound, many thought of Trump as moderate in 2016. When Republicans can paint a Democrat as an out-of-touch elitist — like they did Hillary Clinton, John Kerry, Al Gore or Michael Dukakis — the Republican candidate often wins these voters. When Democrats can instead come off as middle-class fighters, they tend to win.In the 2020 field, two Democrats have the strongest track record of running as middle-class fighters: Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown.ImageSenator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio.CreditElizabeth Frantz/ReutersThey are both Midwestern senators, Klobuchar (who launched her campaign Sunday) from Minnesota, Brown (who hasn’t yet decided whether to run) from Ohio. They both have a populist folksiness to them. And, no, those aren’t racial code words. Obama also won swing voters thanks in part to populist folksiness.About the power of large corporations, Klobuchar has said, “The public is at a breaking point.” She talks constantly about lowering health care costs. Brown talks constantly about restoring “the dignity of work.” Both have also smartly avoided some ideas that play better with liberal Twitter than swing voters, like the fever dream of eliminating private health insurance.And both of them win elections. Last year, while most Ohio Democrats were getting trounced, Brown won, by seven percentage points. Klobuchar won her own re-election in a landslide. She even won in two of the only three House districts nationwide — both outside of the Twin Cities — that flipped from Democrat to Republican last year. “She’s a progressive who’s found a way to connect with a wide range of people Democrats often struggle to reach,” Lawrence Jacobs of the University of Minnesota told me. “The Klobuchar message is: You can be both progressive and electable.”Minnesota StrongIn her Senate races, Amy Klobuchar has won more votes than other Democrats on the ballot in Minnesota.
2018
Klobuchar
60.3%
Walz (Gov.)
53.8
T. Smith (Sen.)
53.0
Ellison (Att. Gen.)
49.0
2012
Klobuchar
65.2%
Obama (Pres.)
52.7
2006
Klobuchar
58.1%
Swanson (Att. Gen.)
53.2
Hatch (Gov.)
45.7
Note: Total general-election vote share in each race.By The New York TimesKlobuchar and Brown do have weaknesses. She is battling accusations of having been a harsh boss, which seem to be a mix of sexist stereotype and some truth. Brown, as a middle-aged white guy not known for rhetorical greatness, will have to show he isn’t too boring to stand out in a crowded field.But if I were Trump, I would fear Klobuchar and Brown. Either would be well positioned to take back blue-collar states Trump needs, like Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania and maybe even Ohio and Iowa. They could also play well in the Sunbelt suburbs of Arizona, Florida and North Carolina.And if I were the other 2020 Democrats, I’d be studying how Klobuchar and Brown have succeeded where so many other Democrats have been failing.RELATEDOpinion | Jamelle Bouie: The Biden FallacyFeb. 7, 2019Opinion: Who’s Ahead in the Race to Beat Trump?Jan. 31, 2019Opinion | Rachel Bitecofer: Why Trump Will Lose in 2020Jan. 24, 2019Opinion | Michelle Goldberg: A Woman to Vanquish TrumpJan. 21, 2019Sign up for David Leonhardt’s daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.
@DLeonhardt • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump’s
Nightmare
Opponents. 

Andrew Wheeler, Who Continued Environmental Rollbacks, Is Confirmed to Lead E.P.A. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexClimateSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperClimate|Andrew Wheeler, Who Continued Environmental Rollbacks, Is Confirmed to Lead E.P.A.AdvertisementSupported byAndrew Wheeler, Who Continued Environmental Rollbacks, Is Confirmed to Lead E.P.A.ImageAndrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, has a less combative style than his predecessor, Scott Pruitt, but the same focus on rolling back many environmental regulations.CreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesBy Lisa FriedmanFeb. 28, 2019WASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday confirmed Andrew R. Wheeler to be the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, giving oversight of the nation’s air and water to a former coal lobbyist and seasoned Washington insider.The confirmation formalized a role Mr. Wheeler has held in an acting capacity since the summer when President Trump’s first administrator, Scott Pruitt, resigned amid multiple ethics inquiries. The vote, 52-47, went mostly along party lines and underscored partisan divisions over the Trump administration’s continued commitment to repealing environmental regulations under Mr. Wheeler. Senator Susan Collins of Maine was the only Republican to vote against Mr. Wheeler.“The policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation,” Senator Collins said.Nearly eight months after taking over the chief role from Mr. Pruitt, who was known for his combative style, analysts said Mr. Wheeler had brought a change in demeanor to the agency but virtually no difference in policy direction from his predecessor.Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.Jonathan H. Adler, a professor at the Case Western Reserve University School of Law, characterized Mr. Wheeler’s soft-spoken style and willingness to listen to criticism as genuine. But, he said, “It’s not going to mean that his priorities suddenly go away or that he’s suddenly going to abandon the regulatory philosophy that the administration from the very top has embraced.”“This is an administration that would like to reduce the overall regulatory footprint of the federal government,” Mr. Adler said. Republicans said they have been delighted to discover Mr. Wheeler is as enthusiastic about repealing environmental regulations and promoting coal as Mr. Pruitt was, and are looking to him to cement Mr. Trump’s legacy as a warrior against what they see as regulatory overreach.“He’s been a very solid follow on to Scott Pruitt.” said Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist. “He’s followed through in a fairly aggressive fashion on everything Scott started.” Mr. Wheeler has moved to dramatically weaken two of former President Obama’s signature climate change initiatives, cutting emissions from power plants and from automobiles, while also proposing to make new coal-fired power plants easier to approve. He also has also sought to unwind the legal justification for curbing toxic mercury emissions from power plants, limit federal protection of small waterways, and dismissed a panel of independent scientific advisers.Some of the most consequential climate rollbacks are expected to be finalized in the coming months. That will most likely touch off a barrage of lawsuits from Democratic-governed states and environmental activists who have vowed to fight the rollbacks.Mary D. Nichols, who leads California’s air quality agency, said she had experienced firsthand the dissonance between Mr. Wheeler’s demeanor and his actions.By spring of 2018, relations between the state and the Trump administration had hit a low point amid a feud over California’s right to set automobile emissions standards stricter than the ones set by the federal government. Mr. Pruitt had virtually no engagement with Ms. Nichols. At one point, she asked him on Twitter to “call me maybe?”So, about a week after Mr. Pruitt’s resignation, when Mr. Wheeler called her office at the California Air Resources Board, Ms. Nichols said she was encouraged.“He wanted to make sure I knew he was going to be more open and accessible than his predecessor was,” Ms. Nichols said. Nevertheless, negotiations continued to stagnate. “Everyone was polite, that was a welcomed change,” she said. “But there was no difference in policy.” The White House announced last week that the E.P.A. and the Department of Transportation had ended talks with California over its clean-air waiver. The move signaled that the administration is closer to finalizing its rule to roll back tailpipe emissions standards that were put in place under President Barack Obama and will quite likely try to revoke California’s ability to set its own pollution rules.“I have to say that I don’t find him materially different than Scott Pruitt in his policies or the mission that he has taken on,” Ms. Nichols said. “The only difference really is that he is more polished and more professional to deal with.” On climate change, Mr. Wheeler also has taken a calibrated tone that contrasts with his policies.Unlike Mr. Pruitt who went on television to say carbon dioxide is not a primary contributor to global warming and rising global temperatures might be good for humanity, Mr. Wheeler told a Senate confirmation panel in January that “climate change is real.” He rated his level of concern about climate change, on a scale of 1 to 10, at an eight or nine.But, two weeks later, he appointed John Christy, an atmospheric scientist at the University of Alabama, Huntsville, who has testified that the earth will benefit from more planet-warming emissions, to an influential E.P.A. scientific advisory board.And asked whether he intended to work with Congress to finalize a ban on chlorpyrifos — an insecticide associated with developmental delays and cognitive impairments in children that Mr. Pruitt, acting against the advice of the E.P.A.’s own chemical safety experts, chose not to remove from use — Mr. Wheeler assured lawmakers in a written statement that the agency was “committed to fully evaluating this pesticide using the best available science.”Yet the agency under Mr. Wheeler’s leadership had already challenged a decision by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ordering the E.P.A. to ban the pesticide. This month, the court ruled in favor of the challenge and ordered a new hearing in the case.E.P.A. officials did not respond to a request for comment on this article. Mr. Adler said that Mr. Wheeler’s experience in Washington has helped him avoid waving red flags in front of lawmakers. But ultimately, he said, Mr. Wheeler is committed to fulfilling the president’s agenda.“There is a tendency to assume if someone is reasonable they’re going to agree with you,” Mr. Adler said. “Wheeler has a very conservative view of environmental regulation and how it should be handled, and is very much in line with this administration’s overall regulatory philosophy.”Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.
@LFFriedman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Former Coal Lobbyist Is Confirmed by Senate As Leader of E.P.A.. 

Letters to the Editor - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBook ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBook Review|Letters to the EditorAdvertisementSupported byLetters to the EditorFeb. 8, 2019All GreekTo the Editor:In his review of “Aristotle’s Way” (Jan. 27), John Kaag quotes Edith Hall as criticizing Stoicism because it “recommends the resigned acceptance of misfortune rather than active, practical engagement with the fascinating fine-grained business of everyday living and problem solving.” It is disheartening that an eminent classical scholar such as Hall could have misread the Stoic phliosophers so badly. As Massimo Pigliucci explained in “How to Be a Stoic,” Stoicism is very much a practical philosophy of life that promotes social engagement and a genuine concern for others, not resignation and passivity. It is a guide to action and to participating in one’s community in order to cultivate one’s character and a love of humanity.RICHARD ZUCKER EUGENE, ORE.♦To the Editor:John Kaag slightly mischaracterizes Aristotle when he says that all that’s required to remake one’s life is “sustained effort into being properly happy.” For Aristotle, happiness is the end or goal, not the motive for our actions. Aim for happiness and you’ll miss; aim for moderation and you’ll attain happiness (eventually). More important, as insightful as Aristotle is, it’s hard to take advice from someone who excluded from his purview women, slaves, the short, the unattractive, the uneducated, the working class — essentially, anyone falling outside the ideal of ancient Athenian nobility. While we can certainly bracket these failings while emphasizing the practical aspects of Aristotle’s overall view, a little intellectual honesty is needed.ALAN A. PRETI FORT WASHINGTON, PA.The writer is an associate professor of philosopy at Rosemont College.You Can Do BothTo the Editor:In Judith Newman’s lively, thoughtful and insightful review of “Help Me!,” by Marianne Power (Jan. 27), she writes: “The contradiction at the heart of many self-help books is that you’re supposed to accept yourself more while simultaneously changing to create a better you. I say: Pick one.” But that’s a false dichotomy. As Newman must know, numerous self-help books direct readers in how to identify and accept their true self. Not the self imposed by parents, racism, sexism or economic disparity. Rather, it’s as Michelle Obama noted in her memoir: If you don’t define yourself, someone will define you. Accepting the pain of who-you’ve-been-told-you-are is a first step toward accepting the fact that’s not who-you-are. The best self-help books recognize that acceptance is multifaceted, and that it’s no contradiction whatsoever to accept yourself, as you are today, while accepting the possibility that you can become someone new tomorrow.SCOTT HAAS CAMBRIDGE, MASS.The writer is a clinical psychologist. The Times welcomes letters from readers. Letters for publication should include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. Letters should be addressed to The Editor, The New York Times Book Review, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. The email address is books@nytimes.com. Letters may be edited for length and clarity. We regret that because of the large volume of mail received, we are unable to acknowledge or to return unpublished letters. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page 6 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Letters. 

Democrats Prepared to Subpoena Mueller and Take Fight Over Report to Court - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Democrats Prepared to Subpoena Mueller and Take Fight Over Report to CourtAdvertisementSupported byDemocrats Prepared to Subpoena Mueller and Take Fight Over Report to CourtImageRepresentative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, vowed to wage a legal battle if the Justice Department did not release the special counsel’s report.CreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesBy Emily CochraneFeb. 24, 2019WASHINGTON — Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said on Sunday that House Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and subpoena Mr. Mueller to testify if it was not made public.Mr. Mueller, who has spent nearly two years investigating ties between the Trump campaign and Russia and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, is expected to submit his report to the Justice Department in the coming weeks, but the department is not required to release it.“We will take it to court if necessary,” Mr. Schiff, Democrat of California, said on ABC’s “This Week.” “And in the end, I think the department understands they’re going to have to make this public.”Justice Department regulations dictate that Mr. Mueller must submit a confidential report outlining his investigation and decisions to the attorney general, William P. Barr, who will then submit a summary to Congress.While he is required to explain the conclusion of the investigation, Mr. Barr has discretion about what additional details he provides.Mr. Barr, in his confirmation hearings, promised to be as transparent as possible under the special counsel regulations, which allow for discretion after criticism that the independent counsel Ken Starr’s lengthy report to Congress about President Bill Clinton’s sexual relationship with a White House intern was salacious.But Mr. Barr’s expansive views of executive power, coupled with a memo he wrote arguing that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice by firing James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, have raised concerns among Democrats about his impartiality and his willingness to provide information that could be unflattering to the president.Mr. Schiff’s suggestion that Mr. Mueller and his report could be subpoenaed is among several possibilities Democrats are considering as part of an effort to make the report public. But it is unclear how successful efforts to subpoena Mr. Mueller would be.“I don’t know that you can,” Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said when asked about the possibility of subpoenaing the report on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”He declined to say whether his committee would also ask Mr. Mueller to testify, saying only that “I think we’ll have to wait and see what’s in the report.”But Neal K. Katyal, who wrote the special counsel regulations in 1999, said Mr. Mueller’s testimony was “certainly possible” — and Mr. Barr is obligated to submit the report to Congress if the special counsel has found any indication of “potential wrongdoing” by the president.“The overall intent of the regulations, it’s said time and time again, is public confidence in the administration of justice,” Mr. Katyal, who was also acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “And any sort of suppressed report about presidential wrongdoing will flunk that test.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A13 of the New York edition with the headline: Democrats Plan Fight to Release Mueller’s Report. 

What’s on TV Sunday: ‘Now Apocalypse’ and an Aretha Franklin Tribute Concert - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexTelevisionSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperTelevision|What’s on TV Sunday: ‘Now Apocalypse’ and an Aretha Franklin Tribute ConcertAdvertisementSupported byWhat’s on TV Sunday: ‘Now Apocalypse’ and an Aretha Franklin Tribute ConcertImageAvan Jogia and Kelli Berglund in “Now Apocalypse.”CreditCreditStarzBy Gabe CohnMarch 10, 2019A new Starz series follows a group of Los Angeles millennials. And Janelle Monáe, SZA and Yolanda Adams are among the performers at an Aretha Franklin tribute show on CBS.What’s on TVNOW APOCALYPSE 9 p.m. on Starz. If you have premium cable, you might as well enjoy the freedom it offers filmmakers who want to explore adult matters. Or millennial matters. This proudly hookup-stuffed comedy series, a brainchild of the New Queer Cinema pioneer Gregg Araki and the Vogue sex columnist Karley Sciortino, follows a group of 20-somethings, including Avan Jogia and Kelli Berglund, exploring themselves — and each other — in a color-drenched Los Angeles. It shares some themes with Araki’s “teenage apocalypse trilogy,” about teens dealing with isolation and sexuality. “We started during the twilight years of the Obama administration,” Araki recently told The New York Times. “That’s why the show has that almost utopian quality of free love — these kids having sex and figuring themselves out. Then 2016 happened. There’s always been that darker, Lynchian aspect of the show, but that became more pronounced.”FINDING JUSTICE 8 p.m. on BET. This documentary series looks at inequality in predominantly black communities in six American cities. Sunday night’s debut episode looks at activists in Tampa, Fla., protesting the state's “Stand Your Ground” law. Later episodes center on Baltimore, Minneapolis and St. Paul, Atlanta, Los Angeles and St. Louis.THE CASE AGAINST ADNAN SYED 9 p.m. on HBO. When the first season of the podcast “Serial” debuted in 2014, it introduced listeners to a number of new things, including the concept of a blockbuster podcast and the case of the murder of Hae Min Lee. Lee was 18 when she was found dead in a park in Baltimore in 1999. In 2000, Adnan Syed, Lee’s former boyfriend, was convicted of her murder. The case was the focus of the first season of “Serial.” This four-part documentary series, helmed by the Oscar-nominated documentary filmmaker Amy Berg, revisits the case through new interviews and archival footage. It also updates the story; in the years since “Serial” covered the case, Syed has been granted a retrial.ImageAlicia Keys, left, and SZA perform at the concert “Aretha! A Grammy Celebration for the Queen of Soul.”CreditCliff Lipson/CBSARETHA! A GRAMMY CELEBRATION FOR THE QUEEN OF SOUL 9 p.m. on CBS. Yolanda Adams, John Legend, Janelle Monáe, SZA, Shirley Caesar and Alicia Keys are among the many Aretha Franklin admirers who perform at this tribute show, which was taped in Los Angeles in January. It’s never a bad time to revisit Franklin’s music, but this month is particularly good: Consider the program an hors d’oeuvre to the wide theatrical release of the Franklin concert film “Amazing Grace” in April.What’s StreamingImageSobhita Dhulipala in “Made in Heaven.”CreditAmazon Prime Video IndiaMADE IN HEAVEN Stream on Amazon. Splendorous weddings meet secret romantic pursuits and drama (as they so often do) in this new Indian series. The show centers on a pair of fictional Delhi wedding planners, Tara (Sobhita Dhulipala) and Karan (Arjun Mathur), navigating a world of big-money ceremonies.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SP7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Sunday. 

SpaceX’s Crew Dragon Capsule Splashes Down After Return Trip to Earth - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexScienceSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperScience|SpaceX’s Crew Dragon Capsule Splashes Down After Return Trip to EarthAdvertisementSupported by SpaceX’s Crew Dragon Capsule Splashes Down After Return Trip to EarthThe capsule parachuted into the Atlantic Ocean hours after leaving the space station, completing its first successful uncrewed trip to and from orbit.VideoThe SpaceX Crew Dragon landed in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday, marking the first time an American private company completed a trip to and from orbit successfully.CreditCreditNASABy Kenneth ChangMarch 8, 2019The new American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts and built by SpaceX gently splashed down in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday morning, ending a successful demonstration trip.“This is an amazing achievement in American history,” Jim Bridenstine, the NASA administrator, said on NASA Television afterward.[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]The mission, even though there were no astronauts aboard, was a milestone in NASA’s strategy of turning to private companies to provide trips to orbit for its astronauts. Instead of building its own vehicles, like the space shuttles that were retired in 2011, the space agency hired SpaceX and Boeing to develop commercial space systems.Last Saturday, SpaceX was the first to launch its spacecraft, an upgraded version of the Dragon capsule that has carried cargo to the space station for years. The Crew Dragon capsule docked with the International Space Station a day later. Early on Friday, it left and after a couple of orbits of Earth, it fired its thrusters to allow Earth’s gravity to pull it down. Mr. Bridenstine praised not only SpaceX and NASA but also earlier presidential administrations. More than a decade ago, NASA under the George W. Bush awarded the first contracts for companies to take cargo to the International Space Station. The Obama administration expanded that to include astronauts.“We're going to have numerous providers that are going to compete on cost and innovation,” Mr. Bridenstine said.The Crew Dragon capsule landed right on schedule, at 8:45 a.m. Eastern time about 230 miles off the east coast of Florida.“If you missed it, I’m sorry, because that was really cool to see,” Daniel Huot, a NASA spokesman, said on NASA Television.Even though there were no people aboard, there was a spacesuit-adorned mannequin, nicknamed Ripley after the heroine in the “Alien” movies, sitting in one of the Crew Dragon seats. The mannequin’s sensors will tell engineers how the trip would have been for humans.The capsule was fished out of the ocean, covered in scorch marks from the atmospheric re-entry that made it look like a toasted marshmallow. Once brought back to shore, the same capsule will be refurbished for another launch, also uncrewed, as soon as June. That trip will be more harrowing — a simulated malfunction of the rocket. The spacecraft’s thrusters will attempt to whisk away the capsule, which will then parachute into the ocean.If that works, two NASA astronauts will ride in another Crew Dragon capsule to the International Space Station, perhaps as soon as July.Boeing’s first crewless test of its Starliner capsule is scheduled for the end of April, and its first flight with astronauts could occur later this year.“These are all capabilities that are leading to a day when we are launching American astronauts on American rockets from American soil,” Mr. Bridenstine said.For now, NASA astronauts continue to hitch rides on Russian Soyuz rockets. The next launch is scheduled for March 14 with two NASA astronauts, Nick Hague and Christina Koch, and Alexey Ovchinin of the Russian space agency Roscosmos.On March 29, Ms. Koch will conduct a spacewalk with Anne McClain, a fellow American astronaut. It will be the first time in the history of spaceflight that two women have conducted a spacewalk together. SpaceX and NASA Launch Is First Step to Renewed Human SpaceflightThe Crew Dragon capsule carried no crew, but it sets up a near future with astronauts traveling to orbit from the United States again.March 1, 2019Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.
@kchangnyt A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: SpaceX Test of Capsule for NASA Ends With a Splash, Right on Time. 

Opinion | Appraising the Green New Deal - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Appraising the Green New DealAdvertisementOpinionSupported bylettersAppraising the Green New Deal Readers discuss an ambitious 10-year plan to combat climate change introduced by Senator Ed Markey and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.March 2, 2019Image CreditCreditLily PadulaTo the Editor:Re “What’s Green? What’s the Deal?” (editorial, Feb. 24):Your excellent editorial lays out the contrast between the promise of a well-crafted Green New Deal and the folly of doing nothing to address the central environmental challenge of our time.From President Trump and Mitch McConnell on down, Republican leaders are running out of places to hide from their abject failure to protect our people from the rising costs and mounting dangers of climate change.First, they said it was all a hoax. As the seas kept rising, the storms kept raging and the wildfires burned out of control, they threw up their hands and whined, “We’re not scientists.” Now they’ve got a new talking point: Trying to fight climate change, they say, is socialism. Socialism!Nonsense. Pooling the best of American innovation and ideas to confront growing problems and gathering threats plays to our strengths as a democracy, as we’ve proved time and again through successful initiatives from Social Security to Medicare.Some Republicans seem hellbent on putting polluter profits first, even when it means putting the rest of us at risk. It’s time to stand up and say we’ve had enough. It’s time for assertive and comprehensive action to protect our children from climate catastrophe — while we’ve still got time.Rhea SuhNew YorkThe writer is president of the Natural Resources Defense Council.To the Editor:The Green New Deal should be concerning to anyone who actually cares about climate change and supports a serious and urgent solution to the problem. This resolution uses climate change as leverage to push a clear and divisive social welfare agenda. The result is an overly expensive and incomplete solution to the climate crisis. Your editorial acknowledges these possibilities but hangs its hat on the premise that any climate change proposal is good for the cause. Let’s stick to celebrating climate change resolutions that at least make an effort at unifying the country around ambitious but workable solutions.Jon NevittScarsdale, N.Y. To the Editor:As young people, we are often told to calm down, to be patient. We have our whole lives ahead of us to figure things out. But when young people look to the future, we see a dark cloud. We see wildfires ravaging the West. We hear of record flooding and ever more powerful storms in the South. We feel the frigid cold brought to us by changing weather patterns, and we are scared.In my classes, I study the rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide over the last 70 years, which tells us to brace ourselves for climate conditions our species has never seen. That terrifies me. What keeps me optimistic, though, is the fact that people are working to understand how climate change will affect society and the ecosystems we depend on. But that work means nothing if our government does not pay attention to these findings and act.That is why I am writing to voice my support for the Green New Deal. Climate change is a large problem to tackle, but we have to start somewhere, and the Green New Deal does just that. Colleen B. SchmidtNew YorkTo the Editor:Re “Dianne Feinstein Lectures Children Who Want Green New Deal, Portraying It as Untenable” (nytimes.com, Feb. 22):In her meeting with schoolchildren, Senator Dianne Feinstein demonstrated how not to approach the Green New Deal, especially with an audience of enthusiastic, idealistic youngsters whose future is at stake.While I totally agree that the Green New Deal is not viable as currently formulated, I also believe that — especially with regard to climate change — it is a goal to strive toward. But if we are to avoid a tear within the Democratic Party, and a tear between generations, we must embrace both the goal and the obstacles.What Ms. Feinstein should have said was that she will work toward that goal, recognizing both how important it is and how it will be feasible only in more manageable steps.Let us not quash the idealism that is needed to make such major changes. But let us also not forget a quote attributed to Voltaire that “the best is the enemy of the good.”Zvi J. DoronPittsburghThe writer is a retired nuclear engineer and co-author of a book about energy and climate policies.To the Editor:While the children of the Sunrise Movement, who are working to stop climate change, may not understand how the Senate functions, they do correctly understand that if the world keeps functioning under business as usual rules, their lives will be fraught with one climate catastrophe after the next.And it is not just children in states with Democratic senators who know this: Middle and high school students in Kentucky were out in force all week, even camping overnight in front of Mitch McConnell’s Senate office for the chance to make their case. The Green New Deal may be expensive, but what would you pay to save your child’s life? Multiply that by millions.Helena BireckiSan FranciscoTo the Editor:American history is replete with what seemed to be, at the time, overly ambitious public policies: Kennedy’s pronouncement to put a man on the moon. The Eisenhower administration’s Interstate highways. And, of course, Franklin D. Roosevelt’s creation of Social Security.The Green New Deal should be included in the debate over new public policies and receive scrutiny from experts to ensure that the proposals are judged on their merits.Mark M. SpradleyChevy Chase, Md.To the Editor:“To Cut Emissions Faster, U.S. Can Apply These Policies” (news article, Feb. 21) shamefully fails to include animal agriculture, which is the second-leading source of greenhouse gas emissions. Not one of the seven steps to reduce emissions even mentions the problem. The article proposes a step to include electric car incentives, even though emissions from animal agriculture surpass those from the entire transportation sector — cars, trucks, trains, planes and ships combined.We cannot continue to ignore the myriad problems with the meat economy, including its huge effect on carbon emissions.John SanbonmatsuWorcester, Mass.To the Editor:Your editorial supporting the Green New Deal despite some of its unrealistic elements is right on the mark. The problem is that it might now be too late given the speed needed to overcome the extreme warming that has already occurred and the significant damage inflicted by the Trump administration on the Obama administration’s environmental policies.Historians might well focus on the 2016 campaign that resulted in the election of an unqualified climate denier as the death sentence to life on earth as we know it. They might also cast considerable blame on the mainstream media for its entertainment-dominated coverage, which resulted in what you refer to as the “hard to believe” fact that not one question about climate change was asked in the presidential debates.Mr. Trump proudly referred to climate change as a “hoax” despite overwhelming scientific evidence to the contrary. If the debate moderators had repeatedly asked him for evidence to support this claim and the media had given as much time to this issue as to Hillary Clinton’s emails, then perhaps the Obama climate policies would still be intact, some form of the Green New Deal would not appear so unrealistic, and we now might have a fighting chance to save life on earth as we know it.Harold J. SmithWhite PlainsA version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR10 of the New York edition with the headline: Appraising the Green New Deal. 

Lyndon LaRouche, Cult Figure Who Ran for President 8 Times, Dies at 96 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexObituariesSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperObituaries|Lyndon LaRouche, Cult Figure Who Ran for President 8 Times, Dies at 96AdvertisementSupported byLyndon LaRouche, Cult Figure Who Ran for President 8 Times, Dies at 96ImageLyndon H. LaRouche Jr. speaking at a news conference in Trenton in 1984 in advance of the New Jersey primary as he sought the Democratic presidential nomination. It was one of his eight campaigns for the White House as a fringe candidate.CreditCreditWilliam Sauro/The New York TimesBy Richard SeveroFeb. 13, 2019Lyndon LaRouche, the quixotic, apocalyptic leader of a cultlike political organization who ran for president eight times, once from a prison cell, died on Tuesday. He was 96.His death was announced on the website of his organization, La Rouche/Pac. The statement did not specify a cause or say where he died.Defining what Mr. LaRouche stood for was no easy task. He began his political career on the far left and ended it on the far right. He said he admired Benjamin Franklin, Alexander Hamilton, Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan and loathed Hitler, the composer Richard Wagner and other anti-Semites, though he himself made anti-Semitic statements.He was fascinated with physics and mathematics, particularly geometry, but called concerns about climate change “a scientific fraud.”He condemned modern music as a tool of invidious conspiracies — he saw rock as a particularly British one — and found universal organizing principles in the music of Bach, Beethoven and Mozart.Some called him a case study in paranoia and bigotry, his mild demeanor notwithstanding. One biographer, Dennis King, in “Lyndon LaRouche and the New American Fascism” (1989), maintained that Mr. LaRouche and his followers were a danger to democratic institutions.Mr. LaRouche denigrated a panoply of ethnic groups and organized religions. He railed against the “Eastern Establishment” and environmentalists, who he said were trying to wipe out the human race. Queen Elizabeth II of England was plotting to have him killed, he said. Jews had surreptitiously founded the Ku Klux Klan, he said. He described Native Americans as “lower beasts.”Even so, Mr. LaRouche was able to develop alliances with farmers, the Nation of Islam, teamsters, abortion opponents and Klan adherents. Acolytes kept Mr. LaRouche’s political machine going by peddling his tracts and magazines in airports, and by persuading relatives and friends to donate large sums to help him fight his designated enemies.He operated through a dizzying array of front groups, among them the National Democratic Policy Committee, through which he received millions of dollars in federal matching money in his recurring presidential campaigns. His forces also sponsored candidates at the state and local levels, including for school board seats.His movement attracted national attention, especially in 1986, when two LaRouche followers, Mark Fairchild and Janice Hart, unexpectedly won the Democratic nomination for lieutenant governor and secretary of state, respectively, in Illinois.Adlai E. Stevenson III, the Democratic candidate for governor of Illinois that year, was appalled. He denounced the LaRouche group as “neo-Nazis” and refused to run with Mr. Fairchild and Ms. Hart, organizing a third-party bid instead. He, as well as the LaRouche supporters, lost to James R. Thompson, the Republican incumbent.Some voters said they had voted for Mr. Fairchild and Ms. Hart because they had been endorsed by Mr. LaRouche’s National Democratic Policy Committee, which they thought was affiliated with the mainstream Democratic Party.ImageMatt Guice, center, a field organizer for Mr. LaRouche’s political action commitee, distributed fliers in Manhattan in 2013. By the mid-1970s, the LaRouche organization had 37 offices in North America and 26 in Europe and Latin America.CreditMark Lennihan/Associated PressCritics of Mr. LaRouche said he had used that committee to deceive people abroad as well. In 1982, he managed to arrange a meeting with President José López Portillo of Mexico, evidently because Mexican officials thought Mr. LaRouche represented the Democratic Party.“I’m as American as apple pie,” Mr. LaRouche once said.Whatever he was, he received thousands of votes in his campaigns for president. In 1980, he outpolled Gov. Jerry Brown of California by a thousand votes in the Democratic presidential primary in Connecticut. In 1986, the candidates fielded by his National Democratic Policy Committee received 20 to 40 percent of the vote in local elections in California, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Texas.Lyndon Hermyle LaRouche Jr. was born on Sept. 8, 1922, in Rochester, N.H., to Lyndon and Jesse (Weir) LaRouche. He grew up in the Quaker tradition. His father was a traveling salesman for the United States Shoe Machinery Corporation, and his mother once ran a Quaker meeting in Boston’s Back Bay.His was not a happy childhood. Boys would pick on him, he said, but he refused to fight them, which only brought more disapprobation.It got no better after the family moved to Lynn, Mass. He regarded himself there as an outcast and had few friends in high school. He was not an “ugly duckling,” he said, “but a nasty duckling.”When World War II began, Mr. LaRouche declared himself a conscientious objector, citing his pacifist Quaker upbringing. But toward the end of the war he enlisted in the Army, despite his mother’s objections.After the war, he enrolled in Northeastern University in Boston but “resigned,” he said, because the university was not challenging his superior intellect. He said he had been able to become the century’s leading economist without formal college study.He married Janice Neuberger in the early 1950s and had a son, Daniel, by her in 1956. The marriage failed, and he never talked publicly about his son and his former wife in his later years.Mr. LaRouche’s political roots were Marxist. From 1948 to 1963, he was active in the Socialist Workers Party, a Trotskyite group.His own group surfaced during the student unrest at Columbia University in the late 1960s as a faction of the left-wing Students for a Democratic Society. It evolved into the National Caucus of Labor Committees, an organization largely made up of young upper-middle-class people who espoused Mr. LaRouche’s Marxist views.He first ran for president in 1976 as the candidate of the left-wing United States Labor Party, now defunct.By then, though, his politics had already begun moving to the right. And after spending much time in West Germany, he returned with right-wing, anti-Semitic views. Many of his followers made the shift with him.George Johnson, the author of “Architects of Fear: Conspiracy Theories and Paranoia in American Politics” (1983), wrote that Mr. LaRouche had developed a conspiracy theory that stretched back to the beginnings of civilization.ImageMr. LaRouche at a news conference in Concord, N.H., in 1987. He began his career on the far left and ended it on the far right.CreditBettmann/Getty Images“In the world according to LaRouche,” Mr. Johnson wrote, “history is a war between the Platonists (the good guys) and the evil Aristotelians. Anyone who has taken Philosophy 101 can follow the drift: Platonists believe in standards, an absolute truth that can be divined by philosopher kings like Mr. LaRouche. To the Aristotelians everything is relative.”In Mr. LaRouche’s view, Mr. Johnson continued, “true Platonists believe that industrialization, technology and classical music should be used to bring wealth and enlightenment to the citizens of the world.”He added: “The Aristotelians are trying to stop them by using not only sex, drugs and rock ’n’ roll but also environmentalism and quantum theory. With their bag of brainwashing techniques, they hope to trick civilization into destroying itself, bringing on a new dark ages in which the world’s riches will be firmly in the hands of the oligarchs.”Mr. LaRouche’s views became the foundation of a political movement. By the mid-1970s, his organization had 37 offices in North America and 26 in Europe and Latin America. A core membership in the United States numbered about 1,000. One follower won 27 percent of the vote in a local election in Seattle. Mr. LaRouche was pulling in enough money nationally to qualify for federal matching funds for his presidential campaigns.He had also become an entrepreneur, starting three companies, one of which printed newspapers for high schools; together they brought in revenues of $5 million or more a year.In his efforts to build a worldwide organization, Mr. LaRouche was helped by his wife, Helga Zepp-LaRouche, a native of Germany who had been a journalist there. Information about his survivors was not immediately available.Mr. LaRouche was at the apex of his power in the mid-1980s, when he moved his headquarters to a large rented estate in Northern Virginia, in Round Hill, outside Leesburg. When neighbors wondered aloud why he had turned the estate into an armed camp, rigged with electronic security and patrolled by men with semiautomatic rifles, Mr. LaRouche went on the attack. He said that the Leesburg Garden Club was “a nest of Soviet fellow travelers.”In 1987, after an F.B.I. investigation, Mr. LaRouche was convicted in Virginia on charges of scheming to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and of deliberately defaulting on more than $30 million in loans from thousands of his supporters. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison and sent to a federal penitentiary in Minnesota.The conviction hurt his movement but did not end it. He was released from prison in 1994, after serving a third of his sentence. He immediately announced that he would run for president in 1996. He ran again in 2000 and 2004. After Barack Obama was elected in 2008, Mr. LaRouche warned that the new president was in “grave and imminent danger” of being assassinated by the “British Empire,” a familiar target of Mr. LaRouche’s.By 2015 he had long turned against Mr. Obama, calling for his impeachment and accusing him in one instance of orchestrating Turkey’s downing of a Russian fighter jet involved in the war in Syria. “Obama organized an act of war, and has thus endangered the United States, as well as all of humanity,” Mr. LaRouche wrote.But he could be bipartisan in his attacks. He accused the Bush family of collaborating with Nazi Germany during World War II, and said that the invasion of Iraq in 2003 was a product of a neoconservative conspiracy, led by Vice President Dick Cheney, to deceive the American people. That view was expressed in a series of pamphlets, titled “Children of Satan.”But Mr. LaRouche was heartened by the election of President Trump, though he perceived a British conspiratorial hand reaching into the United States to foment efforts to “politically paralyze” the president and bring about his impeachment.That would be a mistake, he said. As his website declared, “Not since William McKinley has a president been so clear in his intent to return the nation to the economic tradition of Alexander Hamilton, to end the policies of British imperial free trade, and make a full commitment to industry, manufacturing, scientific advancement and world peace.”Dennis Hevesi, who died in 2017, and William McDonald contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Lyndon LaRouche, 96, Cult Figure Who Ran for President 8 Times, Dies. 

What’s on TV Wednesday: ‘The World’s Best’ and ‘Hillary’ - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexTelevisionSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperTelevision|What’s on TV Wednesday: ‘The World’s Best’ and ‘Hillary’AdvertisementSupported byWhat’s on TV Wednesday: ‘The World’s Best’ and ‘Hillary’ImageThe TNT Boys on “The World’s Best.”CreditCreditMonty Brinton/CBSBy Lauren MessmanFeb. 6, 2019A new talent competition show brings together RuPaul, Faith Hill and Drew Barrymore as judges. And “Hillary,” a series about one of the first climbers to reach Mount Everest’s summit, is available to stream.What’s on TVTHE WORLD’S BEST 8 p.m. on CBS. This outrageous new reality show, hosted by the comedian James Corden, holds its second night of auditions. International musicians, dancers, martial artists, gymnasts, singers and more will compete for the judges RuPaul, Faith Hill and Drew Barrymore, as well as a panel of 50 experts from 38 countries, for the chance to win $1 million and the title of “The World’s Best.” The competition show, which debuted after the Super Bowl, is the latest spin on flashy TV talent shows like “The Masked Singer” and “The Voice.”FORGED IN FIRE 9 p.m. on History. In a very different kind of reality-show competition, the sixth season of “Forged in Fire” brings together bladesmiths who show off their weapon-making skills for the chance to win $10,000. The show is hosted by Wil Willis, a former Army Ranger; J. Neilson, a veteran knife maker; Doug Marcaida, the hand-to-hand-combat specialist; and David Baker, a swordsmith well versed in ancient weaponry. As its name suggests, the series features a lot of fire, so it’s best not to try to replicate the action at home: In 2017, one aspiring bladesmith caused a massive blaze.What’s StreamingImageDarren Young, left, and Andrew Munro in “Hillary.”CreditCarmen Leonard/PBSHILLARY on Amazon Prime, Google Play, PBS, Vudu and YouTube. Edmund Hillary may be best known as the adventurer who made history in 1953 when he and the mountaineer Tenzing Norgay became the first people to scale Mount Everest’s summit. But this six-part series delves into Hillary’s life, from his days growing up in South Auckland, New Zealand, to the plane crash that killed his wife and daughter. Andrew Munro stars in the title role, and Dean O’Gorman plays his lifelong climbing companion, George Lowe.ImageZack Mulligan and Keire Johnson in “Minding the Gap.”CreditHuluMINDING THE GAP (2018) on Hulu. This skateboarding documentary, the director Bing Liu’s feature debut, is about so much more than skateboarding. It uses the sport, a shared passion among friends like Zack Mulligan and Keire Johnson in Rockford, Ill., to examine a bigger cycle of neglect and abuse that permeated their childhoods, and begins to seep into their lives as adults. In his review in The New York Times, A. O. Scott wrote: “The title can be taken to refer to the chasm between hope and reality, or to the fissures that separate people from one another and from their own best selves. But it also suggests the possibility of self-awareness and the healing power of reflection.” The film was nominated for an Oscar for best documentary feature, and President Obama included it in his list of works he loved in 2018.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Wednesday. 

Opinion | Congress to I.R.S.: Don’t Even Think of Helping Taxpayers - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Congress to I.R.S.: Don’t Even Think of Helping TaxpayersAdvertisementOpinionSupported byCongress to I.R.S.: Don’t Even Think of Helping TaxpayersCongress could free most Americans from the annual drudgery of filling out tax forms. Instead, it’s trying to lock the current system in place. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.April 10, 2019Image CreditCreditLuba LukovaCongress has landed on one of those rare ideas that commands support from both Democrats and Republicans. Unfortunately, it’s a bad one.On Tuesday, the House approved legislation misleadingly titled the Taxpayer First Act that includes a provision prohibiting the Internal Revenue Service from developing a free online system that most American households could use to file their taxes. The Senate is considering a similar piece of bipartisan legislation.This makes no sense. Congress should be making it easier for Americans to file their taxes. Instead of barring the I.R.S. from making April a little less miserable, why isn’t Congress requiring the I.R.S. to create a free tax filing website?Better yet, the United States could emulate the roughly three dozen countries, including Chile, Japan and Britain, where most taxpayers do not need to fill out tax returns. In some of those countries, the accuracy of tax withholding is sufficient to obviate the annual filing process. In others, the government sends out completed forms to most taxpayers. In Estonia, filing taxes can be done in less than three minutes.The federal government collects enough information about most American households to mail out a completed tax form that people would simply need to verify, sign and return. President Ronald Reagan proposed a version of just such a system. In 1998, Congress passed a law instructing the I.R.S. to develop such a system by 2008. President Barack Obama endorsed the concept during the 2008 presidential campaign. It still hasn’t happened.The explanation is sad but not surprising. The most vocal opponent of simplicity is Intuit, the maker of TurboTax, which has spent millions of dollars lobbying against efforts to reduce demand for its services. The company draws support from conservatives worried that making it easier to file taxes would make it easier to raise taxes.Since the early 2000s, the government has required Intuit and its competitors to offer free tax-filing software to the 70 percent of taxpayers with the lowest incomes. The legislation requires the I.R.S. to continue the Free File program rather than developing its own. Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is co-sponsoring the Senate version of the bill, said on Wednesday that the I.R.S. would retain the authority to end the Free File program. But a number of independent experts, including the National Consumer Law Center, said the bill removed that exit ramp.But only about 3 percent of taxpayers use the programs.Intuit and its allies, including proponents of the legislation, say that it’s cheaper and better for the government to let private companies run the system. But companies have little incentive to advertise the availability of free filing or to make the system easy to use. Indeed, they have every reason to steer people away from the free products. That is how they make money.As a result, the government is saving taxpayer money at the expense of those taxpayers.There is evidence that automatic payment systems can make it easier to raise prices. A 2009 study found agencies raised toll rates after the adoption of E-ZPass, perhaps because drivers were less likely to object if they were unaware of the increases. But an automatic filing system also might help taxpayers to save money. For example, almost a quarter of eligible households don’t claim the earned-income tax credit.Members of Congress pay lip service to ideas like filing taxes on a postcard, but they continue to perpetuate the current system of mass April immiseration by preventing the most obvious and effective way to simplify tax collection.Americans with complicated finances are stuck with the misery of the current tax system. That’s no reason to force most Americans to join them.Would You Let the I.R.S. Prepare Your Taxes?April 15, 2015Industries Turn Freedom of Information Requests on Their CriticsNov. 5, 2018The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A30 of the New York edition with the headline: Congress to I.R.S.: Don’t Help Taxpayers. 

Opinion | Stephen Moore Would Be a Loyalist, not an Expert, at the Fed - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Stephen Moore Would Be a Loyalist, not an Expert, at the FedAdvertisementOpinionSupported byStephen Moore Would Be a Loyalist, not an Expert, at the FedPresident Trump has tried to get the Federal Reserve to share his love of low interest rates. Now he’s ratcheting up the pressure.By Binyamin AppelbaumMr. Appelbaum is a member of the editorial board.March 23, 2019ImagePresident Trump announced he plans to nominate Stephen Moore to the Federal Reserve’s board of governors.CreditCreditTom Williams/CQ Roll Call/Associated PressPresident Trump, who craves low interest rates, has tried to bend the Federal Reserve to his will by tweeting insults and offering unsolicited advice. He threatened to fire Chairman Jerome H. Powell. He invited Mr. Powell to dinner. None of it worked as well as he would like. In the president’s view, high interest rates still are smothering economic growth. So on Friday, Mr. Trump tried something new. He said that he planned to nominate one of his economic advisers, Stephen Moore, to an open seat on the Fed’s board of governors. Notwithstanding his public outbursts, Mr. Trump previously has nominated six people to the Fed’s board, and all were well-qualified candidates who might have been chosen by any Republican president. With the choice of Mr. Moore, however, Mr. Trump crossed a line.Mr. Moore has repeatedly staked out public positions on questions of monetary policy over the last decade. His record is best characterized as inconsistent with any particular set of economic principles, but reliably faithful to the short-term interest of the Republican Party.During the Obama administration, he warned that the Fed was sowing the seeds of hyperinflation. “Zero interest rates haven’t helped the economy,” Mr. Moore told The Washington Post in 2015. Following Mr. Trump’s election, Mr. Moore executed a quick U-turn. He began to insist that lower interest rates were just what the economy needed. Mr. Trump reportedly settled on Mr. Moore after he was shown an article Mr. Moore co-wrote earlier this month making that case.Mr. Moore has not argued that he changed his mind because he realized he was wrong, or because the facts changed. Indeed, on another question of public policy, he has maintained a politically convenient position despite the accumulation of facts to the contrary. He is a stalwart evangelist for the unsupported belief that tax cuts cure slow growth.The state of Kansas took Mr. Moore’s advice on fiscal policy in 2013, adopting a set of tax cuts recommended by Mr. Moore and his longtime collaborator Arthur Laffer. The two men promised a “near immediate” increase in economic growth. Instead, the state’s economy languished and the state government fell into a funding crisis. In the course of the subsequent debate, the editorial page editor of The Kansas City Star announced that Mr. Moore had misstated so many facts that she would no longer publish his contributions in the paper.There is a legitimate debate to be had about the level of interest rates. Many economists, both liberals and conservatives, shared Mr. Trump’s concerns about the Fed’s move toward higher rates last year. The Fed itself has decided to suspend further rate increases.But that is no reason to let Mr. Trump install a loyalist at the Fed. The public interest is best served by appointing thoughtful and experienced policymakers to the Fed’s board, and then standing back and letting them do their best. Politicians, always looking to the next election, tend to want faster economic growth in the near term without particular regard for the long-term consequences. Mr. Trump reportedly has dismissed concerns about the rise of the federal debt, for example, by telling advisers, “Yeah, but I won’t be here.”The Fed’s job is to keep its eye on the horizon and maintain sustainable economic growth.Mr. Moore is not the man for that job.RelatedTrump Taps Fed Critic Stephen Moore for Board SeatMarch 22, 2019Trump’s Economic Outlook Is Rosy. That Could Be a Problem.March 11, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Binyamin Appelbaum joined the Times editorial board in 2019. From 2010 to 2019, he was a Washington correspondent for The Times, covering the Federal Reserve and other aspects of economic policy. He has been a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in public service.
@BCAppelbaum • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR8 of the New York edition with the headline: Sending a Loyalist to the Fed. 

Opinion | How to Make a Vision Board That Works, for Real This Time - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|How to Make a Vision Board That Works, for Real This TimeAdvertisementOpinionSupported byHow to Make a Vision Board That Works, for Real This TimeIf you can paste it to a poster board, you can be it. Probably.By Julie KrautMs. Kraut is a comedy writer.April 6, 2019ImageCreditCreditIllustration by Linda Huang; Photographs by Science Photo Library, Piotr Marcinski/EyeEm, and MirageC, via Getty ImagesCalling all dreamers, all procrastinators, all people who’ve aged out of wunderkind status (happy 27th birthday, by the way): Stop doing nothing to make your hopes come true and start a vision board! A vision board is a collection of inspiring images, quotes and objects that turns your most important goals into accomplishments. Sound too good to be true? Before I made a vision board, I was like you — skeptical, sad and wearing jeans that didn’t work for my body type. But, now here I am, giving advice on how to be happy!Imagine your brightest future. No matter what you have to do to get there — lose weight, start a podcast, volunteer once — a vision board can help, as long as you make one that works. A vision board that doesn’t work is just a collage. (Saying that with the deepest respect for the collage community.)To create a functional vision board, follow these easy steps:Step 1: Set Your IntentionHow do you want to feel once this vision board takes effect? Use simple phrases that describe your post-vision board self. To inspire you, I’ll share intentions from my previous vision boards: “Happy.” “Successful at literally anything.” “Skinnier than my sister.” (Pro tip: If you don’t have a sister, pick anyone whose genetics you find flagrantly unfair.)Step 2: Gather Your SuppliesYou’ll need a corkboard, scissors, magazines with pictures so airbrushed that you feel kind of sad about your face, pushpins and/or tape.Step 3: Find Your Creative SpaceConsecrate a private area as your vision board creation zone by lighting candles, burning incense and hanging tapestries. If no private space is available because, despite your age, you live with roommates, you can put those kids you babysit for to bed a few hours early and use their playroom.Step 4: Source Your ImagesNow it’s time to search for pictures. Be sure to use only those that make you feel like you can accomplish your goals. Don’t waste your vision board’s time by pinning up a KonMari organized closet. What about a bathroom that’s not always out of hand soap? And you can throw away that picture of a businesswoman with no unread emails in her inbox. Instead, look for a lady who actually hems her work pants and doesn’t just commit to walking on her tip toes.Step 5: Place Your Vision BoardIt’s not called a vision board because it’s invisible. Put your board someplace you can see it every day, which means other people will see it, too. This is where the motivation magic happens! Your friends, family and third dates can hold you accountable. When they ask things like, “Is that a ransom note from a cartoon villain?” and “You know Barack Obama can’t be president again, right?” let your community’s energy propel you to make your dreams come true.Step 6: Make It RealTurn that picture of a green smoothie into your reality! That novel you’re going to write, sell and adapt into an unexpectedly successful indie film? It’s on you to start and finish it! That stock photo of a woman who looks like she has her own Netflix password and doesn’t use her old intern’s? Make her you! Once you make every single one of those much-needed changes, your vision board has worked. Believe it or not, true happiness is as simple as that!Julie Kraut is a writer in Los Angeles.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR2 of the New York edition with the headline: A Vision Board That Really Works. 

Opinion | Trump’s Payback for Payday Lenders - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Trump’s Payback for Payday LendersAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump’s Payback for Payday LendersThe new head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is seeking to gut rules that protect Americans from a predatory industry.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 12, 2019Image CreditCreditLeonardo SantamariaThe federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau betrayed financially vulnerable Americans last week by proposing to gut rules conceived during the Obama era that shield borrowers from predatory loans carrying interest rates of 400 percent or more. The bureau’s proposal is based on a legally dubious rationale that will surely be challenged in federal court. The agency’s abdication of its mandate to protect consumers underscores the need for state usury laws, which have passed in 16 states and offer the surest path to curtailing debt-trap lending. Payday lenders promote “easy” loans for workers who run short of cash between paychecks and who typically promise to repay the debt within two weeks. But voluminous data collected by the consumer protection bureau showed that the industry’s business model — in which a $500 loan could cost a borrower $75 or more in interest just two weeks later — was built on the presumption that customers would be unable to pay at the appointed time and would be forced to run up the tab by borrowing again.A 2014 bureau study of 12 million similar loans found that over 60 percent went to borrowers who took out seven or more loans in a row. In fact, a majority of loans went to people who renewed so many times that they ended up paying more in fees than the amount of money they originally borrowed. Among those trapped in this debilitating cycle were many people scrimping by on disability income.After years of research, the bureau in 2017 issued sensible regulations governing loans that lasted 45 days or fewer. The cornerstone rule required payday lenders to determine whether the borrower could repay the debt while still meeting living expenses. The point was to create a supply of small-dollar loans that allowed lenders to earn a reasonable profit without driving borrowers into penury.This strategy was clearly working. But the Trump administration established from the start that it was more interested in rewarding the lending industry than protecting borrowers. Mick Mulvaney, as the bureau’s acting director, sided with the lenders last year when they went to court to block the regulations. The bureau’s new director, Kathleen Kraninger, has now proposed hollowing out nearly all of the meaningful requirements in the rules — including the ability-to-pay requirement. The bureau argues that there was “insufficient evidence” for the provision, despite a wealth of data supporting it and the fact that the provision has long been a foundation of sound underwriting.Consumer organizations are gearing up to flood the bureau with data showing that the existing rules are fully justified and that dismantling them would harm millions of borrowers. If the new rules weather the comment period and become final, a lawsuit will certainly follow. By that point, the 2020 political campaigns will be in full swing, and Republican candidates will have a difficult time ducking the issue.RelatedMore on payday lending.Consumer Protection Bureau Cripples New Rules for Payday LoansFeb. 6, 2019Opinion | The Editorial BoardCongress Considers Going Easy on Predatory LendersMarch 29, 2018The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Mr. Trump’s Payback for Payday Lenders. 

Trump Finds Personal Rapport Goes Only So Far With Xi and Kim - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Trump Finds Personal Rapport Goes Only So Far With Xi and KimAdvertisementSupported byTrump Finds Personal Rapport Goes Only So Far With Xi and KimImagePresident Xi Jinping of China last week at the National People’s Congress in Beijing. President Trump believes that his personal rapport with Mr. Xi could clear the way to a trade pact.CreditCreditJason Lee/ReutersBy Mark LandlerMarch 11, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版WASHINGTON — He likes one and admits to falling in love with the other. He treasures letters from each of them. And he believes the personal rapport he built with both could clear the way to historic agreements on trade and nuclear arms that have eluded his predecessors.To President Trump, all diplomacy is personal, especially with the two Asian strongmen he has courted most avidly, Kim Jong-un of North Korea and Xi Jinping of China.But Mr. Trump’s honeymoon with Mr. Kim came to an abrupt end in Vietnam last month, and his conviction that agreements between nations are little different than real estate deals between bosses now faces another stiff test with the Chinese president.In trade talks with China that are heading toward a potential meeting with Mr. Xi, Mr. Trump hopes to overcome decades of distrust to sign an agreement that would end a bitter trade war between the world’s two largest economies.But the debacle in Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, where Mr. Trump not only failed to strike a disarmament deal but also was miles apart from Mr. Kim, laid bare a fundamental weakness in his deal making: his belief that bluster and force of personality can bridge deep-rooted differences and lack of preparation.It also showed that strongmen, whom Mr. Trump has so ardently cultivated, can be as frustrating to negotiate with as democratically elected leaders.Even more than Mr. Kim, Mr. Xi would bring a complex mix of advantages and vulnerabilities to a meeting with Mr. Trump. Rather than calibrating his approach to those realities, some worry the president will fall prey to the same pitfalls and miscalculations that doomed his meeting with the North Korean dictator.The Chinese share those qualms. Plans for the two leaders to meet at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s estate in Palm Beach, Fla., at the end of March are now on hold, largely because the Chinese fear that the president could walk out on Mr. Xi like he did on Mr. Kim.“Trump is running the same play,” said Evan S. Medeiros, a former China adviser to President Barack Obama. “But it’s fundamentally flawed, whether you’re dealing with a strong leader in a totalitarian society or a strong leader in a diverse, integrated society.”In both cases, Mr. Medeiros said, the president is relying on his charm, as well as his ability to read people and improvise, to persuade his counterpart to agree to a difficult structural change: China, to overhaul its state-directed economy; North Korea, to give up a nuclear program that the Kim dynasty views as critical to its survival.Yet Mr. Trump has shown a propensity to relax his terms as the negotiations unfold. He went from demanding that North Korea rapidly and completely disarm to saying he was in no hurry, as long as Mr. Kim stopped testing nuclear bombs or missiles.He went from demanding that China abandon an array of what he calls predatory trade practices to undermining his own chief trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, when he began to explain the memorandums of understanding that would codify those concessions in a trade pact between the United States and China.“Based on the Trump-Kim summit, it is clear that Trump’s partners know a lot more about where their bottom line is than Trump does,” said Minxin Pei, an expert in United States-China relations at Claremont McKenna College.Having failed in Vietnam, he said, Mr. Trump might be even more motivated to make a deal with the Chinese president. Unlike the nuclear showdown with North Korea, which poses security risks but is a faraway threat to most Americans, the trade war with China has exacted heavy costs on American farmers, automakers and manufacturers.“Trump cares more about his re-election than about forcing structural change in China,” Mr. Pei said.ImageMr. Trump’s honeymoon with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, came to an abrupt end last month in Vietnam after they failed to reach a disarmament deal.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesSome of Mr. Trump’s top aides — like Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and the chief economic adviser, Larry Kudlow — have urged him to find a compromise with Beijing, warning about the damage that his escalating tariffs could have on the stock market, which he views as a barometer of his presidency.The divisions between hard-liners and pragmatists on Mr. Trump’s economic team are more pronounced than on his national security team, where Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, and the national security adviser, John R. Bolton, urged him to walk away from a bad deal with North Korea.Mr. Kim and Mr. Xi, meanwhile, have shown an instinct to try to play Mr. Trump. In Hanoi, the North Korean leader proposed to dismantle a single plutonium reactor and extend the halt in nuclear and missile testing, in return for Mr. Trump’s lifting all economic sanctions.The Chinese have offered to buy billions of dollars of American oil, gas and soybeans, which would give Mr. Trump an easy victory, in return for the United States’ rolling back its tariffs. But they have not yet agreed to enforcement mechanisms against more pernicious practices, like the forced transfer of American technology.While Mr. Trump heaps praise on both leaders, there are telling differences in how he talks about them.“I like him and I believe he likes me a lot,” the president said of Mr. Xi in April 2017, when their relationship was in its early bloom. By last fall, when the trade war had heated up, Mr. Trump said, “He may not be a friend of mine anymore, but I think he probably respects me.”With Mr. Kim, Mr. Trump has taken a more playful tone. Last fall, he regaled supporters with how the two had gone from “fire and fury” to trading friendly letters. “And then we fell in love, O.K.?” he said. “No, really — he wrote me beautiful letters.”Mr. Trump is not yet ready to break up with Mr. Kim. But after the impasse in Hanoi, the president described him as “quite a character,” a line open to various interpretations.“Trump understands there is a difference between the dictator of a small country versus the head of state of the largest country in the world,” said Victor D. Cha, who negotiated with Pyongyang during the George W. Bush administration.Mr. Kim is a reclusive figure who traveled to Vietnam by train and governs with a tiny circle of cronies. Mr. Xi has roamed the world stage since rising to the top of the Communist Party in 2012. He fields a team of seasoned trade negotiators led by a Harvard-trained economist, Liu He.Some analysts argue that the months of working-level negotiations between Mr. Liu and Mr. Lighthizer would make an unexpected breakdown, like the one in Hanoi, less likely.“The nature of the negotiation is much different,” said Cheng Li, the director of the John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution. “Both sides will have a much better understanding in advance of whether there is a chance of success.”And yet Mr. Trump’s mercurial personality looms large. The Chinese were caught off guard when he went ahead with tariffs on $200 billion of their exports. They were caught off guard when he walked away from Mr. Kim.The collapse in Hanoi, analysts said, has echoed loudly in Beijing, where officials are leery of sending Mr. Xi into another unpredictable encounter with Mr. Trump in Florida. With so much at stake, they are pushing to button up any agreement beforehand.For Mr. Trump, the biggest hurdle to a Nixon and Mao moment in Palm Beach may be that Mr. Xi is simply unwilling to risk the kind of on-the-fly deal making that the American president — and Mr. Kim — seem to relish.“The Chinese are obsessive about process,” said Jeffrey A. Bader, a former China adviser to Mr. Obama. “They don’t believe in the big guy swooping in. They haven’t done that since Mao.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: After Failure With Kim, Another Test Looms in Xi. 

Trump Finds Personal Rapport Goes Only So Far With Xi and Kim - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Trump Finds Personal Rapport Goes Only So Far With Xi and KimAdvertisementSupported byTrump Finds Personal Rapport Goes Only So Far With Xi and KimImagePresident Xi Jinping of China last week at the National People’s Congress in Beijing. President Trump believes that his personal rapport with Mr. Xi could clear the way to a trade pact.CreditCreditJason Lee/ReutersBy Mark LandlerMarch 11, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版WASHINGTON — He likes one and admits to falling in love with the other. He treasures letters from each of them. And he believes the personal rapport he built with both could clear the way to historic agreements on trade and nuclear arms that have eluded his predecessors.To President Trump, all diplomacy is personal, especially with the two Asian strongmen he has courted most avidly, Kim Jong-un of North Korea and Xi Jinping of China.But Mr. Trump’s honeymoon with Mr. Kim came to an abrupt end in Vietnam last month, and his conviction that agreements between nations are little different than real estate deals between bosses now faces another stiff test with the Chinese president.In trade talks with China that are heading toward a potential meeting with Mr. Xi, Mr. Trump hopes to overcome decades of distrust to sign an agreement that would end a bitter trade war between the world’s two largest economies.But the debacle in Hanoi, the Vietnamese capital, where Mr. Trump not only failed to strike a disarmament deal but also was miles apart from Mr. Kim, laid bare a fundamental weakness in his deal making: his belief that bluster and force of personality can bridge deep-rooted differences and lack of preparation.It also showed that strongmen, whom Mr. Trump has so ardently cultivated, can be as frustrating to negotiate with as democratically elected leaders.Even more than Mr. Kim, Mr. Xi would bring a complex mix of advantages and vulnerabilities to a meeting with Mr. Trump. Rather than calibrating his approach to those realities, some worry the president will fall prey to the same pitfalls and miscalculations that doomed his meeting with the North Korean dictator.The Chinese share those qualms. Plans for the two leaders to meet at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trump’s estate in Palm Beach, Fla., at the end of March are now on hold, largely because the Chinese fear that the president could walk out on Mr. Xi like he did on Mr. Kim.“Trump is running the same play,” said Evan S. Medeiros, a former China adviser to President Barack Obama. “But it’s fundamentally flawed, whether you’re dealing with a strong leader in a totalitarian society or a strong leader in a diverse, integrated society.”In both cases, Mr. Medeiros said, the president is relying on his charm, as well as his ability to read people and improvise, to persuade his counterpart to agree to a difficult structural change: China, to overhaul its state-directed economy; North Korea, to give up a nuclear program that the Kim dynasty views as critical to its survival.Yet Mr. Trump has shown a propensity to relax his terms as the negotiations unfold. He went from demanding that North Korea rapidly and completely disarm to saying he was in no hurry, as long as Mr. Kim stopped testing nuclear bombs or missiles.He went from demanding that China abandon an array of what he calls predatory trade practices to undermining his own chief trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, when he began to explain the memorandums of understanding that would codify those concessions in a trade pact between the United States and China.“Based on the Trump-Kim summit, it is clear that Trump’s partners know a lot more about where their bottom line is than Trump does,” said Minxin Pei, an expert in United States-China relations at Claremont McKenna College.Having failed in Vietnam, he said, Mr. Trump might be even more motivated to make a deal with the Chinese president. Unlike the nuclear showdown with North Korea, which poses security risks but is a faraway threat to most Americans, the trade war with China has exacted heavy costs on American farmers, automakers and manufacturers.“Trump cares more about his re-election than about forcing structural change in China,” Mr. Pei said.ImageMr. Trump’s honeymoon with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, came to an abrupt end last month in Vietnam after they failed to reach a disarmament deal.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesSome of Mr. Trump’s top aides — like Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and the chief economic adviser, Larry Kudlow — have urged him to find a compromise with Beijing, warning about the damage that his escalating tariffs could have on the stock market, which he views as a barometer of his presidency.The divisions between hard-liners and pragmatists on Mr. Trump’s economic team are more pronounced than on his national security team, where Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, and the national security adviser, John R. Bolton, urged him to walk away from a bad deal with North Korea.Mr. Kim and Mr. Xi, meanwhile, have shown an instinct to try to play Mr. Trump. In Hanoi, the North Korean leader proposed to dismantle a single plutonium reactor and extend the halt in nuclear and missile testing, in return for Mr. Trump’s lifting all economic sanctions.The Chinese have offered to buy billions of dollars of American oil, gas and soybeans, which would give Mr. Trump an easy victory, in return for the United States’ rolling back its tariffs. But they have not yet agreed to enforcement mechanisms against more pernicious practices, like the forced transfer of American technology.While Mr. Trump heaps praise on both leaders, there are telling differences in how he talks about them.“I like him and I believe he likes me a lot,” the president said of Mr. Xi in April 2017, when their relationship was in its early bloom. By last fall, when the trade war had heated up, Mr. Trump said, “He may not be a friend of mine anymore, but I think he probably respects me.”With Mr. Kim, Mr. Trump has taken a more playful tone. Last fall, he regaled supporters with how the two had gone from “fire and fury” to trading friendly letters. “And then we fell in love, O.K.?” he said. “No, really — he wrote me beautiful letters.”Mr. Trump is not yet ready to break up with Mr. Kim. But after the impasse in Hanoi, the president described him as “quite a character,” a line open to various interpretations.“Trump understands there is a difference between the dictator of a small country versus the head of state of the largest country in the world,” said Victor D. Cha, who negotiated with Pyongyang during the George W. Bush administration.Mr. Kim is a reclusive figure who traveled to Vietnam by train and governs with a tiny circle of cronies. Mr. Xi has roamed the world stage since rising to the top of the Communist Party in 2012. He fields a team of seasoned trade negotiators led by a Harvard-trained economist, Liu He.Some analysts argue that the months of working-level negotiations between Mr. Liu and Mr. Lighthizer would make an unexpected breakdown, like the one in Hanoi, less likely.“The nature of the negotiation is much different,” said Cheng Li, the director of the John L. Thornton China Center at the Brookings Institution. “Both sides will have a much better understanding in advance of whether there is a chance of success.”And yet Mr. Trump’s mercurial personality looms large. The Chinese were caught off guard when he went ahead with tariffs on $200 billion of their exports. They were caught off guard when he walked away from Mr. Kim.The collapse in Hanoi, analysts said, has echoed loudly in Beijing, where officials are leery of sending Mr. Xi into another unpredictable encounter with Mr. Trump in Florida. With so much at stake, they are pushing to button up any agreement beforehand.For Mr. Trump, the biggest hurdle to a Nixon and Mao moment in Palm Beach may be that Mr. Xi is simply unwilling to risk the kind of on-the-fly deal making that the American president — and Mr. Kim — seem to relish.“The Chinese are obsessive about process,” said Jeffrey A. Bader, a former China adviser to Mr. Obama. “They don’t believe in the big guy swooping in. They haven’t done that since Mao.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A8 of the New York edition with the headline: After Failure With Kim, Another Test Looms in Xi. 

Trump Accuses Democrats of ‘Harassment’ Over Congressional Inquiries - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Trump Accuses Democrats of ‘Harassment’ Over Congressional InquiriesAdvertisementSupported byTrump Accuses Democrats of ‘Harassment’ Over Congressional InquiriesVideoPresident Trump spoke at the annual National Prayer Breakfast, where he implored attendees to open up to faith in order to “fill our hearts with love.”CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesBy Maggie HabermanFeb. 7, 2019WASHINGTON — President Trump accused Democrats on Thursday morning of “presidential harassment” over congressional investigations into his finances, and he mocked Virginia politicians whose jobs are in peril after revelations they appeared in blackface.Then, the president went to the annual National Prayer Breakfast, where he implored attendees to open up to faith in order to “fill our hearts with love.” Mr. Trump described America as “a nation that believes in redemption.”The split-screen version of Mr. Trump has become a familiar formula, after two years of slash-and-burn tweets in the morning — and sometimes throughout the day — followed by presidential events meant to convey a somber tone.Thursday offered an unusually stark comparison between Mr. Trump’s unvarnished thoughts and his formal schedule, as he seeks to revive his connection to evangelical and conservative voters whose support was crucial to his victory in 2016.“So now Congressman Adam Schiff announces, after having found zero Russian Collusion, that he is going to be looking at every aspect of my life, both financial and personal, even though there is no reason to be doing so. Never happened before! Unlimited Presidential Harassment...” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter at around 6:15 a.m.It was quickly followed by, “The Dems and their committees are going “nuts.” The Republicans never did this to President Obama, there would be no time left to run government. I hear other committee heads will do the same thing. Even stealing people who work at White House! A continuation of Witch Hunt!”And then, in a reference to scandals engulfing Democrats in Virginia about wearing blackface and accusations of a sexual assault, Mr. Trump wrote, “Democrats at the top are killing the Great State of Virginia. If the three failing pols were Republicans, far stronger action would be taken. Virginia will come back HOME Republican) in 2020!”Twenty-five minutes later, Mr. Trump left for the Washington Hilton, where he sat in front of a plate of fruit and bagels, chatting with others, before he was called up to speak at the prayer breakfast.“I will never let you down,” Mr. Trump told the audience, to applause.The president described the group as “united by a shared belief in the glory of God and the power of prayer.” He added, “When we open our hearts to faith, we fill our hearts with love.”He boasted that his “administration has taken historic action to protect religious liberty,” and talked about his State of the Union address, in which he proposed new restrictions on late-term abortions.“All children, born and unborn, are made in the holy image of God,” Mr. Trump said.He then discussed Pastor Andrew Brunson, who had been imprisoned in Turkey, and whose case was championed by conservatives. Mr. Brunson was at Mr. Trump’s address on Tuesday.That section brought another, small reminder that Mr. Trump’s teleprompter performances are different than the rawness his Twitter feed or interviews offer.Reading from the prepared remarks, Mr. Trump said that the pastor this weekend “will walk his daughter down the aisle.” Mr. Trump appeared surprised by what he had just read, and said, “Wow. That’s great. Congratulations. Was I invited?”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Accusations And Prayers, All in a Day For Trump. 

Opinion | The Meaning of Tony Romo, Super Bowl Psychic - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|The Meaning of Tony Romo, Super Bowl PsychicAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Meaning of Tony Romo, Super Bowl PsychicMeet Romostradamus. Savor Romomania. And behold the beauty of real expertise in a country starved of it.By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistFeb. 2, 2019ImageCreditCreditBen WisemanThe Super Bowl arrives and, with it, so many questions big and small. Is Tom Brady part cyborg and maybe even immortal? Will the Los Angeles Rams be hamstrung by the knowledge that they got this far by the grace of several sleepwalking referees?How frequently will Tony Romo see the future? And might our fascination with that speak to a longing that reaches far beyond football?But first a quick primer on Romo, CBS’s dependably psychic commentator. Over the course of two seasons analyzing National Football League games from the broadcast booth, he has provided more than the usual blather and banter. He guesses what will happen next: blitz or no blitz, run or pass, involving this wide receiver or that tight end. He doesn’t do this for every play, but he does it repeatedly. And if he were picking stocks on Wall Street, he’d be a gazillionaire.Romo hit peak prognostication when he announced the game two weeks ago in which Brady and the New England Patriots eked past the Kansas City Chiefs, earning yet another trip to the Super Bowl. He made 15 specific forecasts. Thirteen were correct. On the two occasions when the team on offense bucked Romo’s soothsaying, “the results were poor — one play ended with an incomplete pass, and the other with a turnover,” noted Zach Helfand in The New Yorker. “It seemed that, even when Romo was wrong, he was right.”ImageTony Romo in the broadcast booth in 2017.CreditMike Roemer/Associated PressImageTony Romo on the field with the Dallas Cowboys in 2014.CreditRay Carlin/Corbis, via Getty ImagesRomo, 38, previously spent more than a decade as a quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys. He was great but he wasn’t great, and with him as its leader, the team never went all the way. In a twist that’s testament to second acts in American lives, he’s doing something as a star for CBS that he never did as a star for the Cowboys: going to the Super Bowl. I suppose that’s fitting, because he’s more than great in his current gig. He’s peerless. And he’s a sensation.So much so that after the Patriots-Chiefs game, reporters for The Wall Street Journal studied 46 hours of television footage from this past football season to review the 2,599 plays that Romo had provided live commentary for. Not even the Nixon Tapes got scrutiny like that. The Journal found 72 instances when Romo prophesied what a team was about to do. The team did what he said 68 percent of the time.“A broadcasting phenomenon” is how The Journal describes Romo. Twitter calls him Romostradamus. Football fans gush about Romomania. And this is obviously about more than the novelty of his crystal ball.It’s about the rarity of his unquestionably deep knowledge in an era when so many of the people who put on the trappings of authority and peddle pearls of wisdom don’t actually have the goods. When so many opinions come with a swagger inversely proportional to their worth. When social media, cable channels, webcasts, podcasts, blogs and more have created an environment in which everybody’s an expert and nobody’s an expert — in which it’s sometimes impossible to tell.With Romo you can tell. His verified foresight proves his genuine insight.As I’ve savored his genius and reflected on its appeal, I’ve flashed back to some comments that President Obama made to The New Yorker’s top editor, David Remnick, for a lengthy article in late November 2016 about his waning days in office. Obama was obsessed with the chaotic nature of this new information ecosystem. “Everything is true and nothing is true,” he told Remnick. “An explanation of climate change from a Nobel Prize-winning physicist looks exactly the same on your Facebook page as the denial of climate change by somebody on the Koch brothers’ payroll.”I also flashed back to another article, by Amy Zegart, that appeared in The Atlantic the following summer. It defined the “three paradoxes disrupting American politics,” the first of which was “more information, less credibility.”“The volume of data is exploding, and yet credible information is harder to find,” Zegart wrote. “Why? Because the barriers to entry are so low.” You don’t need a printing press, a book contract or the approval of some gatekeeper to have your say and share your thoughts. You just need an internet connection. And while there’s obvious benefit to that — judgment and permission aren’t the exclusive province of a discriminatory elite — there’s obvious danger, too. Good filters disappear with the bad ones. Cyberspace is at once a smorgasbord and a junkyard.Romo’s habitat — network television — is old-fashioned, but that’s not what distinguishes and recommends him. His seriousness sets him apart. I don’t mean his style, which Helfand likened to “that of a 10-year-old who’s really into dinosaurs showing his uncle the T. rex exhibit at the American Museum of Natural History.” I mean his content. He played football recently and has studied it closely, so he understands what the athletes are thinking, what the coaches are plotting, what makes sense on third down and what doesn’t. He uses the days between the games that he’s announcing to bone up on the teams that will come under his gaze, even interviewing their members. While he comes by his charisma naturally, he makes it a point to be informed.How refreshing, and what an excellent reminder he is that hugely successful athletes aren’t just physically gifted; they’re mentally tough, and many are smart. Their sports pivot on intricate strategy as much as brute strength. To the agile thinkers go the spoils. Ever listened to one of those LeBron James news conferences right after a basketball game? He remembers and can deconstruct every second of it. It’s all there in his brain.Romo found glory aplenty on the football field, but he began to find even greater glory the minute he stepped off it in late 2016, with a farewell speech that was like the climactic monologue in one of those sports movies that has grown men working every last muscle and tendon in their faces not to cry.“I just want to leave you with something I’ve learned in this process,” he said, referring to his quarterbacking years. “I feel like we all have two battles or two enemies going on. One with the man across from you. The second is with the man inside of you. I think once you control the one inside of you, the one across from you really doesn’t matter.”Emotional intelligence along with clairvoyance: That’s no everyday combination. But then he’s no everyday oracle. You can tune in to the Super Bowl to marvel at Brady, chuckle over the commercials and gripe about the halftime show. Or you can come for Romo. He alone is lure enough. Related Opinion | Sheila MarikarInstagram’s Sneakiness Makes Super Bowl Ads Look QuaintFeb. 2, 2019Opinion | Sarah HuttoI Explain All the SportsFeb. 1, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni). Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs — including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic — before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.
@FrankBruni • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR3 of the New York edition with the headline: Tony Romo, Super Bowl Psychic. 

A Mini History of Our Mini Crossword - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexReader CenterSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperReader Center|A Mini History of Our Mini CrosswordAdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderA Mini History of Our Mini CrosswordThe Times’s little crossword puzzle started out as a big experiment. We never expected that the form would find a devoted following all its own.By Joel FaglianoMarch 26, 2019
Andrew Sondern/The New York TimesIt wasn’t exactly an auspicious start.Within hours of publishing The Times’s first Mini crossword, I’d set off a round of social media hand-wringing for including an abbreviated internet profanity, leading to some nervous moments when I wondered whether my first day on the job would also be my last. (I quickly edited the clue to reference a musical group — “Pop duo with the 2011 #1 hit ‘Party Rock Anthem’” — instead of the slang.)This was back in the summer of 2014 — Aug. 21, to be exact. In the preceding months, The Times had designed and launched a new crossword app, and the Mini was part of the new package. The idea was simple: We wanted a way to encourage more people to try the main New York Times crossword puzzle, which is considered one of the toughest — and which many beginner solvers find overly intimidating.Enter the Mini. In consultation with The Times’s crosswords editor Will Shortz, the product director Matt Hural alighted on the concept of adding a 5x5 crossword to the app, essentially a bite-size version of the regular puzzle. It would be offered every day, for free, right next to the main puzzle. The hope was that it would bring beginner solvers back each day until they were prepared to scale up.As luck would have it, I was graduating college that same year. After several summers spent as an intern, I had recently been hired full-time as Will Shortz’s editorial assistant. I was asked if I wanted to take on this Mini crossword gig and, of course, eagerly accepted.ImageJoel Fagliano and Will Shortz in 2017.CreditStephen Hiltner/The New York TimesI had made 25 full-size puzzles for The Times at that point, but this was a puzzle size and format that I had never tried before. And unlike other new products for The Times that might undergo rigorous user testing and market research, the actual content of the puzzles was left entirely up to me.So the early days of the Mini were experimental, to put it kindly. Many of the initial Minis, for example, contained squares that were only crossed by one answer rather than two, a normally verboten feature in Times crosswords. And while I generally steered clear of text slang after that early fiasco, the rest of that first year was spent fiddling on an almost daily basis with the difficulty, tone and references, not sure what was going to set this little puzzle apart.Over time, however, I grew to realize that the Mini had a few inherent advantages over its bigger counterpart. First, its diminutive size was actually a huge plus for a new generation of solvers. Because it took only a minute or two to complete, it was perfect for this mobile age of scattered attention spans and fractured free time.Second, its relative ease of completion made it the perfect steppingstone for solvers who’d long been intimidated by the difficulty of the main puzzle. A large, untapped audience of beginners were now experiencing the joy of filling in that last square.And finally, because every puzzle was made a few days before its publication date, the puzzle naturally felt more topical, with tie-ins to modern news or politics appearing days after they happened.In late 2015, the Mini was incorporated into the main news app, and the audience for the puzzle took off. Today it’s solved by hundreds of thousands of people across several platforms: in the newspaper, on nytimes.com, in our app. For a while it even appeared in The Times’s daily Snapchat story.As the person responsible for making each puzzle, it’s been both thrilling and stress-inducing. After all, there are only so many vowel-heavy five-letter words. (Thanks, OBAMA!)Sometimes I do genuinely worry that I’ll run out of ideas. My solution has been to draw inspiration for puzzle seed words from all parts of life — a conversation with a friend, the book I’m reading, what’s going on in the news.That way, the puzzle stays just as fresh for me as it does for the solver.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: A Mini History of the ‘Mini’. 

A Mini History of Our Mini Crossword - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexReader CenterSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperReader Center|A Mini History of Our Mini CrosswordAdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderA Mini History of Our Mini CrosswordThe Times’s little crossword puzzle started out as a big experiment. We never expected that the form would find a devoted following all its own.By Joel FaglianoMarch 26, 2019
Andrew Sondern/The New York TimesIt wasn’t exactly an auspicious start.Within hours of publishing The Times’s first Mini crossword, I’d set off a round of social media hand-wringing for including an abbreviated internet profanity, leading to some nervous moments when I wondered whether my first day on the job would also be my last. (I quickly edited the clue to reference a musical group — “Pop duo with the 2011 #1 hit ‘Party Rock Anthem’” — instead of the slang.)This was back in the summer of 2014 — Aug. 21, to be exact. In the preceding months, The Times had designed and launched a new crossword app, and the Mini was part of the new package. The idea was simple: We wanted a way to encourage more people to try the main New York Times crossword puzzle, which is considered one of the toughest — and which many beginner solvers find overly intimidating.Enter the Mini. In consultation with The Times’s crosswords editor Will Shortz, the product director Matt Hural alighted on the concept of adding a 5x5 crossword to the app, essentially a bite-size version of the regular puzzle. It would be offered every day, for free, right next to the main puzzle. The hope was that it would bring beginner solvers back each day until they were prepared to scale up.As luck would have it, I was graduating college that same year. After several summers spent as an intern, I had recently been hired full-time as Will Shortz’s editorial assistant. I was asked if I wanted to take on this Mini crossword gig and, of course, eagerly accepted.ImageJoel Fagliano and Will Shortz in 2017.CreditStephen Hiltner/The New York TimesI had made 25 full-size puzzles for The Times at that point, but this was a puzzle size and format that I had never tried before. And unlike other new products for The Times that might undergo rigorous user testing and market research, the actual content of the puzzles was left entirely up to me.So the early days of the Mini were experimental, to put it kindly. Many of the initial Minis, for example, contained squares that were only crossed by one answer rather than two, a normally verboten feature in Times crosswords. And while I generally steered clear of text slang after that early fiasco, the rest of that first year was spent fiddling on an almost daily basis with the difficulty, tone and references, not sure what was going to set this little puzzle apart.Over time, however, I grew to realize that the Mini had a few inherent advantages over its bigger counterpart. First, its diminutive size was actually a huge plus for a new generation of solvers. Because it took only a minute or two to complete, it was perfect for this mobile age of scattered attention spans and fractured free time.Second, its relative ease of completion made it the perfect steppingstone for solvers who’d long been intimidated by the difficulty of the main puzzle. A large, untapped audience of beginners were now experiencing the joy of filling in that last square.And finally, because every puzzle was made a few days before its publication date, the puzzle naturally felt more topical, with tie-ins to modern news or politics appearing days after they happened.In late 2015, the Mini was incorporated into the main news app, and the audience for the puzzle took off. Today it’s solved by hundreds of thousands of people across several platforms: in the newspaper, on nytimes.com, in our app. For a while it even appeared in The Times’s daily Snapchat story.As the person responsible for making each puzzle, it’s been both thrilling and stress-inducing. After all, there are only so many vowel-heavy five-letter words. (Thanks, OBAMA!)Sometimes I do genuinely worry that I’ll run out of ideas. My solution has been to draw inspiration for puzzle seed words from all parts of life — a conversation with a friend, the book I’m reading, what’s going on in the news.That way, the puzzle stays just as fresh for me as it does for the solver.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: A Mini History of the ‘Mini’. 

Gray Wolves May Lose Endangered Status and Protections - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexScienceSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperScience|Gray Wolves May Lose Endangered Status and ProtectionsAdvertisementSupported byGray Wolves May Lose Endangered Status and ProtectionsOnce again, federal wildlife officials say their numbers have rebounded. But conservationists may go back to court to fight the move. ImageA gray wolf in Yellowstone National Park.CreditCreditDanny Green/NPL/Minden Pictures By Jim RobbinsMarch 6, 2019HELENA, Mont. — Federal wildlife officials are proposing to strip endangered species protections from the gray wolf populations in the Lower 48 states, citing significant increases in their numbers across much of the nation.The decision, announced on Wednesday by David Bernhardt, the acting secretary of the Interior Department, is likely to set off another round of court battles. Conservationists and biologists contend that some areas of the country, like the Adirondacks in New York and the southern Rocky Mountains, could be suitable habitats but wolf populations in those regions are vulnerable and still need protection to recover. The gray wolf populations had dwindled to about 1,000 in the Lower 48 states when they received protection under the Endangered Species Act in 1975. But since their reintroduction to various regions, mostly in the West, the wolves’ numbers have rebounded to about 5,000. “Recovery of the gray wolf under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) is one of our nation’s great conservation successes,” the United States Fish and Wildlife Service said in a statement, “with the wolf joining other cherished species, such as the bald eagle, that have been brought back from the brink with the help of the ESA.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Mr. Bernhardt made the delisting proposal public on Wednesday in a speech to the North American Wildlife and Natural Resources Conference in Denver, but it is not yet official. The proposed rule will be published in the Federal Register, with a period of time made available for public comment. The Obama administration had also proposed removing the wolves’ endangered status in 2013, but federal courts rejected the move. Even before Mr. Bernhardt was named as acting secretary of the Interior Department, administration officials and Republicans in Congress had begun efforts to weaken the Endangered Species Act. And Mr. Bernhardt has come under fire for potential conflicts in a debate over protections for the smelt, a tiny fish at the center of one of the latest rounds of California’s water wars.Once considered only a varmint, wolves were extirpated from nearly all of their range through a campaign of bounty hunting, trapping, the killing of pups in the den with dynamite and even biological warfare as trappers introduced mange into wolf populations.When the wolves received protection, much of the population was limited to northern Minnesota. In the mid-1990s, they were reintroduced into Yellowstone National Park and Idaho, where their numbers have taken off. They have spread into neighboring states, including Utah, Oregon, Washington and California.As their numbers grew, ranchers have had to contend with wolves’ appetite for
cattle and sheep. And while hunters contend that wolves have decimated elk and other game in certain regions, conservationists point to the benefits that the predators provide: keeping deer, elk and other species in check and therefore reducing their effect on vegetation. The National Cattlemen’s Beef Association applauded the plan for delisting, and said it should have happened sooner. In a joint statement, Jennifer Houston, president of the group, and Bob Skinner, president of the Public Lands Council, contended that the Endangered Species Act “rarely functions as Congress intended.” “Radical environmental activists use an endless cycle of lawsuits and procedural tricks,” to thwart delisting, they said.The animals are prolific breeders and while they are hunted and trapped, they are managed by state wildlife agencies that
limit how many can be killed.Losing the endangered status protection concerns conservationists, who worry that new populations won’t become established in areas where the wolf is present, but not yet stable. “Stripping protections from wolves now would halt further recovery from places where wolves once lived and could live again,” said Collette Adkins, carnivore conservation director for the Center for Biological Diversity. “Without protections in the Adirondacks or Maine or the southern Rockies we don’t have any hope of recovery.”Earlier coverage of the gray wolfThe New Threat to Wolves in and Around YellowstoneMay 1, 2017DNA Study Reveals the One and Only Wolf Species in North AmericaJuly 27, 2016Protection for Wolves Is Restored in WyomingSept. 23, 2014A Famous Alpha Wolf’s Daughter, Spitfire, Is Killed by a HunterNov. 30, 2018A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A9 of the New York edition with the headline: Plan to Delist Gray Wolves Likely to Start A Court Fight. 

Opinion | As the Crisis in Venezuela Grows, the Options Narrow - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|As the Crisis in Venezuela Grows, the Options NarrowAdvertisementOpinionSupported byAs the Crisis in Venezuela Grows, the Options NarrowRussian military advisers are on the ground, and American officials are issuing threats. Now what?By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.April 3, 2019ImageCreditCreditAnthony RussoFor 10 weeks now, Venezuela has had two presidents playing a tense game of chicken. The United States and a host of other countries have arrayed themselves behind Juan Guaidó, the young challenger from the opposition, beginning a broad drive to force the disastrously incompetent and dictatorial Nicolás Maduro out of office.But despite threats of intervention, calls on the military to rebel, economic sanctions, promises of aid for the long-suffering Venezuelans and long power failures, Mr. Maduro remains defiantly entrenched in the presidential palace, his corrupt generals at his side and his Russian and Cuban backers behind him.The confrontation ratcheted up when Russia demonstratively flew two military planes with roughly 100 military “advisers” into Caracas on March 23. That prompted an echo of the Monroe Doctrine from President Trump’s national security adviser, John Bolton, to the effect that the United States regards any military forces arriving from outside the Western Hemisphere as a “direct threat” to the region.Upping the ante, Mr. Maduro had his legislature (there are also two of those) strip Mr. Guaidó of his parliamentary immunity as head of the opposition-controlled National Assembly, opening the way to his potential arrest. Mr. Guaidó, who previously defied a ban against traveling abroad, responded by vowing to continue fighting the “cowardly, miserable and murderous” regime. “The regime believes that by attacking me, they will stop us,” Mr. Guaidó told supporters. “There’s no way back in this process.”That may be so, and it certainly would be a great relief for Venezuela to be rid of the leader who inherited a broken country from his revolutionary mentor Hugo Chávez and has continued to push it to utter ruin, creating a humanitarian disaster atop the world’s largest oil reserves. But how long that “transition” might last, and what horrors it may yet visit on people hovering on the edge of starvation, are open questions.Mr. Trump has repeatedly warned that any move to arrest or harm Mr. Guaidó will draw a “significant” response. But then Mr. Trump has frequently rattled his sabers — “all options are on the table” — and there are no suggestions that any military action is being seriously contemplated. And despite bellicose warnings from both Mr. Bolton and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Russia has shown no sign of pulling back its “advisers” or halting its support for Mr. Maduro, if only in hopes of recovering some of the large sums it has lent him.In effect, what was intended as a swift operation to pry out a nasty despot has turned into a stalemate while Venezuela further disintegrates, lately with long, debilitating blackouts.That is not to argue that Mr. Trump should become more aggressive. Mr. Maduro and his patron in the Kremlin may have called Washington’s bluff for now, leaving the American president with his own “red-line moment,” as David E. Sanger wrote in The Times, reminiscent of President Barack Obama’s failure to follow up on his threats against President Bashar al-Assad in Syria. But a military intervention in a country bigger than Texas would be ugly, even if Russia did not get further involved, and nearly all the other nations backing Mr. Guaidó firmly opposed one.The reality is that Mr. Trump has no real option but to wait. It is hard to conceive that Mr. Maduro will hang on indefinitely, or that his generals will not see the writing on the wall as the situation becomes ever more dire. Vladimir Putin, for all his longing to prop up a rare ally in Latin America and to stick it to the United States, cannot project serious power halfway around world, or risk the serious response this could provoke.It is terrible to witness the suffering of a nation for no reason other than the criminal obduracy of a corrupt clique. But the last act in this tragedy can only be performed by the Venezuelans, knowing that the sooner they and their armed forces evict the thieves, the sooner the world will pitch in to help them recover their lives.More on Venezuela from OpinionOpinion | Virginia López Glass‘We Went From Being Poor to Living in Misery’April 1, 2019Opinion | The Editorial BoardVenezuela’s Crisis Spreads Beyond Its BordersFeb. 5, 2019Opinion | The Editorial BoardVenezuela: Between Maduro and a Hard PlaceJan. 24, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: The Options Narrow for Venezuela. 

Under Peace Plan, U.S. Military Would Exit Afghanistan Within Five Years - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Under Peace Plan, U.S. Military Would Exit Afghanistan Within Five YearsAdvertisementSupported byUnder Peace Plan, U.S. Military Would Exit Afghanistan Within Five YearsImageUnited States troops at a training station in Herat, Afghanistan, this month. The plan would shift American operations from training to counterterrorism strikes.CreditCreditJalil Rezayee/EPA, via ShutterstockBy Thomas Gibbons-Neff and Julian E. BarnesFeb. 28, 2019WASHINGTON — All American troops would withdraw from Afghanistan over the next three to five years under a new Pentagon plan being offered in peace negotiations that could lead to a government in Kabul that shares power with the Taliban.The rest of the international force in Afghanistan would leave at the same time, after having mixed success in stabilizing the country since 2001. The plan is being discussed with European allies and was devised, in part, to appeal to President Trump, who has long expressed skepticism of enduring American roles in wars overseas.The plan calls for cutting by half, in coming months, the 14,000 American troops currently in Afghanistan. It would task the 8,600 European and other international troops with training the Afghan military — a focus of the NATO mission for more than a decade — and largely shift American operations to counterterrorism strikes.[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]Various elements of the plan were shared with The New York Times by more than a half-dozen current and former American and European officials. It intends to help talks with the Taliban that are being led by Zalmay Khalilzad, the American special envoy.So far, the plan has been met with broad acceptance in Washington and NATO headquarters in Brussels. But American officials warned that Mr. Trump could upend the new plan at any time.And officials said that even if the peace talks broke down, the United States would go forward with shifting to counterterrorism missions from training Afghan forces.Until the final withdrawal, several thousand American forces would continue strikes against Al Qaeda and the Islamic State, including on partnered raids with Afghan commandos. The counterterrorism missions, and the military’s dwindling presence, are also critical to allowing the C.I.A. to operate in Afghanistan.Lt. Col. Koné Faulkner, a Pentagon spokesman, said no decisions had been made as peace talks continued. The Defense Department “is considering all options of force numbers and disposition,” Colonel Faulkner said.ImageTaliban officials in Moscow this month. Taliban negotiators oppose the proposal for American counterterrorism troops to remain in Afghanistan for up to five years.CreditPavel Golovkin/Associated PressBut European allies said they had been consulted about the proposal — a stark contrast to Mr. Trump’s surprise announcement in December to withdraw American forces from Syria.“The Europeans are perfectly capable of conducting the training mission,” James Stavridis, a retired American admiral and former top NATO commander who is now with the Carlyle Group private equity firm. “It is a smart division of labor to have the United States shift the bulk of its effort toward the special forces mission and having the Europeans do the training mission.”Mr. Stavridis said the two missions would be coordinated, including American logistical support and military backup for the European troops.On Monday, American diplomats met with the Taliban in Qatar in the highest-level negotiations yet, including the attendance of Gen. Austin S. Miller, the commander of the international mission in Afghanistan. The negotiations paused on Wednesday and are set to resume on Saturday.The two sides have sought to flesh out a framework agreement, decided in principle last month, for the full withdrawal of foreign troops and assurances by the Taliban to prevent terrorist groups that seek to attack the United States from using Afghan territory as a safe haven.The Afghan government has not been a part of the negotiations because of Taliban reluctance to talk to President Ashraf Ghani or his envoys.The prospect of an American military withdrawal has raised fears across the world that it could lead to the fall of the Western-backed government in Kabul and a return to the extremist rule of the Taliban. Before it was ousted in 2001, the Taliban was accused of human rights abuses, prohibited girls from attending school and imposed harsh penalties on accused heretics.American officials have said any deal to withdraw international forces from Afghanistan must involve a cease-fire agreement and the inclusion of government leaders in the negotiations.In a speech on Thursday in Kabul, Mr. Ghani warned Afghan security forces to be prepared for possible Taliban attacks ahead of any peace deal.VideoAfghanistan is America’s longest war — 17 years. That’s longer than World War I, World War II and the Korean War combined.“Peace is not easy; it needs courage and bilateral honor,” Mr. Ghani said.European officials have previously said they would rapidly pull their forces from Afghanistan if the American military was shorn too small to provide logistic support. American officials said enough troops would remain — even if they were cut to 7,000 — to continue the European training mission as outlined in the Pentagon’s plan.In some respects, the focus on counterterrorism missions in Afghanistan is an endorsement of a plan by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as the Obama administration debated its own war strategy in 2009. Mr. Biden’s proposal was ultimately rejected in favor of a counterinsurgency plan, which called for training local forces and a surge of American troops, as pushed by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, who was then the top commander in Afghanistan.Taliban negotiators deeply oppose the proposal for American counterterrorism troops to remain in Afghanistan for up to five years, and officials were unsure if a shorter period of time would be accepted by the militants’ rank and file.Scaling back the training mission could leave the beleaguered Afghan military not just vulnerable to attacks, but at risk of fracturing. In January, Mr. Ghani announced that more than 45,000 Afghan troops had died since 2014; Pentagon officials have called their casualty numbers unsustainable.Despite pouring billions of dollars into the Afghan military for more than a decade, Pentagon audits show that a renewed effort to modernize the fledgling Afghan Air Force will most likely not be self-sufficient until the mid-2030s.Speaking to lawmakers in December, the incoming commander for American troops in the Middle East, Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie Jr., said that Afghan forces could not sustain themselves without American and NATO support.“I do know that today it would be very difficult for them to survive without our and our coalition partners’ assistance,” he said.Current and former Defense Department officials said limiting American assistance to the Afghan military would require a delicate balance of providing just enough material support for the NATO training mission, known as Resolute Support, to ensure that Western allies remain invested without sacrificing counterterrorism operations.European allies cited General Miller as describing the reduced troop levels as about “doing more with less.”ImageAfghan Army officers at a graduation ceremony in Kabul this month. Scaling back the training mission could leave the Afghan military at risk of fracturing.CreditHedayatullah Amid/EPA, via ShutterstockOne former Defense Department official with knowledge of the talks said more American support for the training mission could be based outside Afghanistan and flown in when needed. European countries have relied heavily on American bases, supplies and other logistics throughout the war.One German official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the talks, underscored how reliant Berlin’s 1,300 troops are on medical evacuation aircraft and air support provided by the United States.British forces may take part in counterterrorism operations, but those missions are expected to nearly completely be under American command.Laurel Miller, who was a top State Department official working on Afghanistan and Pakistan policy during the Obama and Trump administrations, said it was risky to change the military mission in Afghanistan without a peace plan in place.“The idea of scaling down to a small CT-only mission has long been discussed in the U.S. government,” she said. But, she said, “if you stop backing up Afghan forces in their main fight, you can’t very well keep working on your narrower priorities in isolation with Afghanistan falling apart around you.”It is also possible that international funding support for the Afghan government could end up going to the Taliban under a power-sharing agreement. But American and European officials called it critically necessary to continue funding Afghan security forces.The track record for American-supported governments after peace treaties or troop withdrawals is shaky at best.American-trained South Vietnamese fell to Communist forces two years after the United States withdrew from the Vietnam War in 1973. Large portions of the Iraqi Army collapsed in the face of an Islamic State offensive in 2014, just three years after the withdrawal of the American military and its trainers, necessitating a return to Iraq by international forces.Some officials believe continued funding for the Afghan military is more important than an enduring international troop presence for the survival of Afghanistan’s government.“As long as we continue to provide funding to the Afghan security forces in the field, I think the security forces would be very capable of keeping order in the country, particularly in a scenario where the Taliban has come in from the cold,” Mr. Stavridis said.Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington, and Fahim Abed and David Zucchino from Kabul, Afghanistan. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Pentagon Plan Sees U.S. Clear Of Afghanistan. 

For Democrats Aiming Taxes at the Superrich, ‘the Moment Belongs to the Bold’ - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBusinessSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBusiness|For Democrats Aiming Taxes at the Superrich, ‘the Moment Belongs to the Bold’AdvertisementSupported byFor Democrats Aiming Taxes at the Superrich, ‘the Moment Belongs to the Bold’Image CreditCreditJonathan BartlettBy Patricia Cohen and Maggie AstorFeb. 8, 2019The only thing more startling than the flurry of tax proposals Democrats have unveiled in recent weeks is the full-throttle response they’ve gotten from the public.Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez suggested a near doubling of the top income tax rate. Senator Bernie Sanders, who caucuses with the party, introduced a bill to raise taxes on dynastic heirs. And Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a levy that has never existed in the United States: a wealth tax, assessed annually on America’s biggest fortunes.The soak-the-rich plans — ones that were only recently considered ridiculously far-fetched or political poison — have received serious and sober treatment, even by critics, and remarkably broad encouragement from the electorate. Roughly three out of four registered voters surveyed in recent polls supported higher taxes on the wealthy. Even a majority of Republicans back higher rates on those earning more than $10 million, according to a Fox News poll conducted in mid-January.Riding the momentum of a 40-seat pickup in the midterm elections, Democrats are bringing to the fore audacious policy ideas that have been mostly simmering on the sidelines. As the middle class continues to thin out and wealth concentrates among a tiny sliver of Americans, the party’s powerhouses are questioning economic verities that have stood for decades.Not since President Bill Clinton urged Americans to embrace a hands-off, neoliberal approach to markets — declaring in his 1996 State of the Union that “the era of big government is over” — have Democrats experimented with such a shift in fundamental economic assumptions. Taxes, deficits, spending, financial deregulation — everything is up for appraisal.“This is clearly a tectonic shift in what Democrats are willing to propose,” said William Gale, a co-director of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, referring specifically to the latest tax proposals. “It just feels like a very different environment for policy discussions than, say, two or three months ago.”The new terrain comes with risks, revealing potential philosophical and tactical fault lines among Democrats, who must decide whether to get out in front of the movement or exercise caution. Some hopefuls for the party’s 2020 nomination, certainly, are staking out more moderate positions — a group that includes former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and younger challengers like Senators Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Cory Booker. And it is an open question whether aggressively redistributive tax plans will continue to resonate with voters, or come to be seen as a move to the hard left that alienates the middle of the country.Perhaps sensing an opening, President Trump used his State of the Union address to observe: “Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country.” He added, “Tonight, we resolve that America will never be a socialist country.”What is palatable politically and economically, though, has been refigured by Mr. Trump’s own unorthodox presidency — and by the brushoff Republicans gave the deficit when they passed a $1.5 trillion-tax bill in 2017 that primarily benefited upper-income households and corporations.ImageRepresentative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s push for high marginal rates on multimillionaires kick-started the current debate — and demonstrated her preternatural ability, at age 29, to shift the bounds of policy talk.CreditPete Marovich for The New York TimesThose developments are helping shoot-the-moon visions on the left — like “Medicare for all” or a “Green New Deal” to halt climate change with massive public investment — find firmer footing on political ground. The result is that ideas that have long nipped at the edges of the political conversation are now smack in the middle of it, and think tanks, industry groups and candidates are earnestly analyzing their costs and benefits.The latest string of ambitious tax proposals all “pass a plausibility smell test,” said Jared Bernstein, former chief economic adviser to Mr. Biden. At the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, for instance, billionaires and business school professors discussed Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s views on tax rates.“There are an increasing number of Democrats who believe they have the clearance to do something big and bold,” Mr. Bernstein said. “I think the critics will be less successful.”What’s in the most aggressive plansMs. Warren has gone the furthest in marrying big ideas and granular wonkiness, with a plan that calls for an extra 2 percent annual tax not on income but on all assets — like stocks, real estate and art — owned by households above the $50 million level. The rate would rise to 3 percent on fortunes above $1 billion. The Massachusetts senator’s campaign estimates the policy would raise $2.75 trillion over the course of a decade from roughly 75,000 households, out of a total of 127 million, in the United States.ImageSenator Elizabeth Warren has gone the furthest in marrying big ideas and granular wonkiness. Her wealth tax proposal calls for an annual 3 percent levy on fortunes above $1 billion.CreditCarlos Giusti/Associated PressMs. Warren attached addenda from respected economists and legal scholars to head off skeptics, but questions about the plan’s practicality will inevitably persist. Sweden and other European countries have abandoned wealth taxes in recent years because of problems with enforcement.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, of New York, hasn’t offered a concrete proposal. But her broad defense of high marginal rates for multimillionaires, floated during a “60 Minutes” profile, kick-started the current debate — and demonstrated her preternatural ability, at age 29, to shift the bounds of policy talk.In 2017, debating the Republican tax bill, Congress argued whether the top income rate should be reduced to 37 percent from 39.6 percent. (It was.) With one interview, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez got the country talking about whether the rate should zoom as high as 70 percent.According to estimates by the University of Pennsylvania’s Penn Wharton Budget Model, lifting the top rate as she has described would raise $353 billion. Other independent estimates figured it would affect roughly 16,000 households.Some type of wealth tax and higher rates at the tippy top have long been at the front of Mr. Sanders’ playbook; the same is true of a bill to impose a transaction tax on stock, bond and other financial trades. The Vermont senator’s new estate tax bill — just the latest iteration of a popular Democratic perennial — is a response to a recent Republican effort to altogether end what critics prefer to call a “death tax.”Individuals can now leave their heirs about $11 million tax-free. According to the nonpartisan Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, the average rate on taxable estates in 2018 will be 16.5 percent.Mr. Sanders would lower the asset threshold to what it was in 2009, so that only the first $3.5 million inherited is tax-free. The next $6.5 million would be taxed at a 45 percent rate. Additional chunks of money would trigger higher rates — up to 77 percent on the value of estates above $1 billion.Wojciech Kopczuk, a Columbia University professor of economics, estimated that the Sanders plan would capture money from 8,000 estates per year that currently owe no estate taxes.Mr. Sanders would also eliminate dynasty trusts, which allow families to shelter colossal holdings from taxes as they pass from one generation to the next. His office estimated that the bill would raise at least $315 billion over 10 years.Aside from his policy particulars, Mr. Sanders has been explicit in his broader aims to restrain a homegrown aristocracy that inherits entrenched power and money. In announcing his tax proposal, he quoted Teddy Roosevelt’s warning about the dangers of a small class of enormously wealthy individuals “whose chief object is to hold and increase their power,” and underscored the moral and political imperative to put some limits on dynastic wealth.“It is a very dangerous and unjust situation where so few have so much and so many have so little,” Mr. Sanders said in an interview. “When 46 percent of all new income goes to the top 1 percent, who believes that that is right or that that is good for the economy?”Ms. Warren and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez have expressed similar sentiments. Warning of a poisoned democracy, Ms. Warren said government had “become a tool for the wealthy and well-connected.” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez told an interviewer. “I do think that a system that allows billionaires to exist when there are parts of Alabama where people are still getting ringworm because they don’t have access to public health is wrong.”What more moderate candidates are proposingIf such comments inspire supporters, they also reveal potential divisions among the rising crop of Democrats.The left-leaning Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders are all viewed as less business-friendly than Ms. Gillibrand, Mr. Booker and Ms. Harris, who have not made taxes on the rich a centerpiece of their public pitches. In that sense the latter trio is following the example set by Hillary Clinton in the 2016 campaign and President Barack Obama before her, with comparatively establishment-minded thinking on progressive taxation.Ms. Harris, for example, was asked at a Drake University town hall in Des Moines about the morality of multibillionaires in a society with so many poverty-stricken children; she responded by calling for more taxes on the top 1 percent. Yet the California Democrat’s language, approach and proposals have a distinctly different tone than, say, that of Mr. Sanders, and she has not focused her campaign so far on attacking the wealthy or warning about an oligarchy. Her tax bill offers credits up to $6,000 for families earning less than $100,000 a year, without providing many details of who would make up the difference.Ms. Gillibrand backs a broader estate tax and Mr. Sanders’ financial-transactions tax. Like Ms. Harris, though, her focus has been on bolstering people at the bottom and in the middle, with more generous tax credits for the working poor and middle-class tax cuts.Mr. Booker of New Jersey, the most recent entrant in the Democratic field, supports returning the estate tax to 2009 levels, as Mr. Sanders does, noting that inheritances widen the wealth gap and particularly disadvantage minorities. Mr. Booker has also opposed a loophole that enables heirs to avoid paying taxes on capital gains.But in the early days of his presidential campaign, he has avoided charged language about taxing the superrich and played on more familiar turf such as the carried-interest loophole, which benefits hedge-fund and private-equity executives. That tax break is so widely scorned outside Wall Street that even Donald Trump campaigned against it in 2016.A more traditional blend of fiscal conservatism and social liberalism can also be found among several self-designated centrists and pragmatists, like Mr. Biden and former New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who officially registered with the party in October.Mr. Biden, who has not formally announced that he will seek the White House in 2020, has called generally for higher taxes on the rich and investment income, along with more generous tax credits for the working middle class.Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire dozens of times over, previously supported reducing and simplifying corporate tax rates, though he denounced the Republican tax program that passed in 2017. And he backed increasing the earned-income tax credit to help lower-income working families.ImageFormer New York City mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a potential candidate for the Democratic nomination, rejects the premise that wealth has an insidious effect on democracy.CreditTom Brenner for The New York TimesBut Mr. Bloomberg, who has castigated Ms. Warren’s proposed wealth tax as disastrous and unconstitutional, rejects the premise that wealth has an insidious effect on democracy.And among potential Democratic presidential candidates, he is the only one who has continued to sound the deficit alarm, warning that ambitious proposals for health care or climate control could bankrupt the government.Mr. Bloomberg’s positions highlight tensions likely to arise between an activist wing eager to energize voters and an establishment wary of turning off moderates and independents who dislike President Trump but are alarmed by jeremiads about wealth.Democrats across the board may endorse the idea that the wealthiest sliver of Americans should contribute more to help pay for ambitious health care and education programs. Some may be leery, though, of policies that smack of class warfare.There are practical concerns as well, even if they are taking a back seat for the moment. In interviews, more than a dozen Democratic economists and policy advisers applauded the bold tax proposals while maintaining their preference for more test-driven reforms like closing loopholes, raising top rates and changing the rules around capital gains. Those familiar fixes are less splashy, but they avoid some of the administrative and enforcement hurdles that unconventional proposals, particularly a wealth tax, present.The most influential economists“Gradually and then suddenly” is how a character in Ernest Hemingway’s “The Sun Also Rises” explains going bankrupt. The same might be said of political tipping points.A midterm election that gave Democrats control of the House and brought in a vocal class of more liberal representatives is one reason the range of proposals has so quickly expanded. But just as important as that electoral victory was a previous one — by Mr. Trump — that showed bravura and brashness could prevail over conventional wisdom and caution.“Trump’s election has scrambled people’s views a little bit of what’s politically possible and what is not,” said Jacob Leibenluft, who led Hillary Clinton’s economic policy team during her presidential campaign and served on the Obama administration’s National Economic Council. “It opened up space for set of policies that simultaneously have a populist feel to them and are grounded in economics.”At the same time, enthusiasm for the suddenly popular propositions has deeper roots. Several ideas about taxes, public spending and deficits rattled around liberal circles for years, or surfaced during Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign, before their recent move to center stage.Over the last couple of decades, economists have produced terabytes of new economic data and research charting the effect of the neoliberal cocktail of deregulation, low taxes and cranked-up competition in a global economy. Among the most influential work: findings by the economists Thomas Piketty, Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman detailing the concentration of wealth. Using advanced computing technology and novel data sets, they cataloged the economic fallout that market forces have wrought with unprecedented specificity and range. They also outlined how a wealth tax could work.“We would have had a picture, a sense that something was wrong,” said Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel-prize winning economist who has sounded warnings about growing inequality since the early 2000s. “But they nailed down the numbers that showed 40 percent of the world’s wealth is controlled by 1 percent of the people.”Mr. Zucman said he and Mr. Saez first started meeting with Ms. Warren and other potential presidential candidates in 2014. Last month, the two economists — both professors at the University of California, Berkeley — vetted her wealth-tax proposals and calculated the revenue estimates.Beyond taxes, ideas out of academia have also shifted the political conversation around deficits. Notably, there’s modern monetary theory, pushed by a group of economists led by Stony Brook University professor Stephanie Kelton. She argues that societal needs should determine public spending, not deficits.The call to end Washington’s obsession with red ink has attracted some other surprising advocates, who took a decidedly different route to get there.Lawrence Summers, Treasury secretary during the Clinton administration and the director of President Obama’s National Economic Council, and Jason Furman, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers during the Obama administration, recently published an article in the journal Foreign Affairs declaring everyone should stop worrying so much about the debt. Government deficits matter, they said, just not as much as other things like investing in education, health care, persistent poverty or climate change.“I don’t think there’s any question that the economic reality has changed in ways that should change policy choices,” Mr. Summers said in an interview. “And one should be more worried about issues of fairness and appropriate regulation, more worried about assuring adequate demand and social protection in the balance than would have been the case 20 or 25 years ago.”Deficit hawks, naturally, are not about to concede without a fight. “The challenges facing the economy feel so big that big solutions seem to be the answer,” said Maya MacGuineas, president of the bipartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. “But we just don’t have the fiscal environment to support that. When interest payments are the fastest-growing part of your budget, that is a warning.”The next national elections are still nearly two years away, of course, and the list of potential Democratic presidential hopefuls stretches further than a Cronut line. Policy disagreements will sharpen. What should take priority now, veteran Democratic operatives are emphasizing, is the big picture, rather than brass-tacks policy debates.“Sometimes we argue and negotiate among ourselves to the point where we absolutely smother our aspirations,” said Mr. Bernstein, Mr. Biden’s former adviser. “That’s not just a tactical mistake, but a political one and an economic one. Now the moment belongs to the bold.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page BU1 of the New York edition with the headline: Soak! The! Rich!. 

Opinion | A Trump-Made Emergency - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|A Trump-Made EmergencyAdvertisementOpinionSupported by A Trump-Made EmergencyThe president decides that fulfilling a campaign promise is more important than respecting the separation of powers. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 14, 2019ImageThe border fence under construction near the Santa Teresa border crossing in New Mexico.CreditCreditVictor J. Blue for The New York TimesThis editorial was updated.With his declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, President Trump takes executive overreach to dizzying new heights. The damage to American democracy threatens to linger long after his administration is no more than a dank memory.Cornered into accepting a budget deal that lacked the $5.7 billion in border-wall funding he demanded, the president could not handle being labeled a loser by conservative commentators like Laura Ingraham and Sean Hannity. His solution: Sign the bill while simultaneously declaring a national emergency that, at least in his mind, would allow him to shift funds and order the military to start building his wall.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, announced the move on Thursday afternoon. “President Trump will sign the government funding bill, and as he has stated before, he will also take other executive action — including a national emergency — to ensure we stop the national security and humanitarian crisis at the border,” she said. To repeat: The influx of migrant families at the southern border does not constitute a national security crisis, much less a bona fide emergency. There is, at this point, a worsening humanitarian crisis, actively fueled by the draconian policies of the administration. But the suffering on display requires thoughtful policy adjustments, not a steel monstrosity.Not that this is the end of this battle. Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration is destined to wind up in the courts, where it could get bogged down indefinitely. This fit of presidential pique is about more than a wall. It constitutes a reordering of the power dynamic between the branches of government. Mr. Trump aims to usurp one of Congress’s most basic responsibilities, the power of the purse.Confronted with this power grab, every lawmaker should be bellowing in alarm. Until recently, the threat of an “imperial presidency” was of grave constitutional concern to Republicans, who spent much of President Barack Obama’s tenure accusing him of misusing executive authority on, among other matters, immigration, health care and the environment.To their credit, a few Republican lawmakers have been warning against an emergency declaration for weeks. “I believe the president does have the legal authority — if you read the statute. I also think it would be a poor use of that authority,” Representative David Schweikert, a member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, told Politico in January.Senator Marco Rubio was more emphatic. “If today the national emergency is border security, tomorrow the national emergency might be climate change.”The reaction of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, to Mr. Trump’s intentions will do nothing to calm Republican jitters. “Just think of what a president with different values can present to the American people,” she observed. The poison cherry atop this sundae is that Mr. Trump is subverting American democracy for a cause opposed by a majority of the public. Polls show that most Americans do not want a wall at the southern border. And most definitely do not approve of Mr. Trump’s faking a national emergency to make an end run around Congress. Two recent polls showed that two-thirds of Americans opposed it.Not that any of this seems of interest to the president. “I have the absolute right to do national emergency if I want,” he insisted to reporters last month, sounding more like a huffy kindergartner than a world leader.This administration is forever coming up with creative new ways to disturb and dismay the nation. Mr. Trump’s eagerness to undermine the Constitution to serve his short-term political gain remains among the most outrageous.Opinion | Peter H. SchuckThe Real Problem With Trump’s National Emergency PlanFeb. 14, 2019In Wielding Emergency Powers, Trump Paves a Dangerous Path ForwardFeb. 15, 2019Opinion | Steven Levitsky and Daniel ZiblattWhy Autocrats Love EmergenciesJan. 12, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: A Trump-Made Emergency. 

Opinion | Why Israel Still Loves Netanyahu - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Why Israel Still Loves NetanyahuAdvertisementOpinionSupported byWhy Israel Still Loves NetanyahuYes, he has many faults. But on the issues that matter most, he’s a visionary leader.By Shmuel RosnerContributing Opinion WriterApril 10, 2019ImagePrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu with supporters on Tuesday night.CreditCreditThomas Coex/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesJERUSALEM — There are more than a few reasons to dislike Benjamin Netanyahu. He can be smug and vindictive. He can be ruthless when going up against political enemies. He is likely to be indicted on corruption charges related to three separate cases, which, if they are accurate, indicate that he is greedy, vain and manipulative.And yet last night, this dislikable prime minister appears to have won his fifth — yes, fifth! — term in office. If he forms a government in the coming weeks, as he is expected to, Mr. Netanyahu will surpass Israel’s founder David Ben Gurion as the country’s longest serving prime minister. How is this possible?To be fair, this was a close race. The main opposition party, Blue and White, is expected to get as many seats in the Knesset as Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud party. The coalition that he forms will probably have little more than the minimum 61 seats behind it.Given Mr. Netanyahu’s unsavory qualities, many people were intent on defeating him. Just a few months ahead of the election, Blue and White, a new centrist alliance led by three decorated generals and a former security minister, came together with little purpose other than to present an alternative to Mr. Netanyahu, who has been in power since 2009. They campaigned fiercely — but civilly. At rallies, General Benny Gantz, the head of Blue and White, made it a habit to thank the prime minister for his service to the nation; this was a mirror image of Mr. Netanyahu’s and Likud’s name-calling and personal attacks. But civility and centrism weren’t enough to carry the day.Mr. Netanyahu may be cynical but he doesn’t rig elections. He wins fairly, often against great odds, including, this time, the coming indictments against him and an understandable fatigue with his decade-old leadership, not to mention various other inter- and intraparty squabbles. But he seems to have succeeded again this time for the same reason he has dominated Israeli politics for most of the past 25 years: because when it comes to Israel’s national security, he is a leader with strategy and vision. And that is what many voters want.RelatedMore from Opinion on Israel’s electionOpinion | Hagai El-AdDemocracy, Israeli StyleApril 7, 2019Opinion | Roger CohenWill the Israeli ‘King’ Be Recrowned?April 7, 2019Opinion | Raja ShehadehWe Are Too Weak to Stop IsraelApril 4, 2019In the mid-1990s, during his first term as prime minister, Mr. Netanyahu rejected the assumptions underlying the peace process with the Palestinians. At the time this was considered daringly right wing. Today, it is considered common sense in Israel, including by Mr. Netanyahu’s political rivals. Likewise, Mr. Netanyahu was one of the first politicians to recognize Iran as the main threat to Israel’s survival, and fought fiercely in international forums to get the world’s attention to this problem. Today, this view is also widely appreciated across the Israeli political spectrum.The list goes on: In 2005, he warned that withdrawing Israeli troops from Gaza would end in disaster — and it did. He successfully resisted eight years of the Obama administration’s pressure to offer concessions to the Palestinians. He quickly forged an alliance with President Trump that has already proved to be of great benefit to Israel. In two years, Mr. Trump has moved the American Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, withdrawn from the nuclear agreement with Iran, recognized Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights, and on Monday, designated Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps as a terrorist organization.Blue and White tried to make this election a referendum on Mr. Netanyahu. Its campaign focused largely on the prime minister’s personal failings, the corruption accusations against him, and exhaustion with his leadership. But in Israel, security trumps all other issues. (A poll ahead of the election found voters rated security as their No. 1 concern.)Blue and White thought that by placing former Israel Defense Forces chiefs of staff at the top of the party list, it could counter Mr. Netanyahu’s image and experience as a defender of Israel, diplomatically and militarily. But the public still showed that it trusts the incumbent more.Has Mr. Netanyahu ever been wrong when it comes to security? The truth is, many Israelis will find it hard to think of an example. And this goes not just for voters for the Likud party, or even the right-wing parties that are expected to join Likud in the next government, but even for Blue and White, which largely echoed Mr. Netanyahu’s positions on important foreign policy and national security questions.Those Israelis who do want Mr. Netanyahu gone — and yes, there are many — want him gone because of his personality, his coarsening of Israeli political discourse, his pettiness and, maybe, his corruption. Those Israelis who want Mr. Netanyahu to stay — and the election makes clear that there are many — want him to stay despite those same characteristics. They can forgive the prime minister for often being a small man, because they appreciate him as a great leader.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Shmuel Rosner is the political editor at The Jewish Journal, a senior fellow at the Jewish People Policy Institute and a contributing opinion writer.
@rosnersdomain A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A31 of the New York edition with the headline: Why Israel
Still Loves
Netanyahu. 

Can Peer Pressure Defeat Trump? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|Can Peer Pressure Defeat Trump?AdvertisementSupported by news analysisCan Peer Pressure Defeat Trump?In 2020, Democrats need millennials to turn out. Vote shaming apps can help. ImageCreditCreditSophia Foster-DiminoBy Amy ChozickMs. Chozick is a writer at large for The Times covering business, politics and media.Feb. 22, 2019Twelve years ago, social scientists cracked the code on how to get Americans to vote. Before a special election in Michigan, 100,000 households received slightly different mailers: One reminded them that voting was their civic duty. Another applied gentle social pressure by including the voting history of everyone in that particular household (“Who votes is public information!” it reminded them). The final flier — and by far the most powerful — revealed the voting history of the recipients’ neighbors.“What if your neighbors knew whether you voted?” it asked, along with a warning that after the election, researchers would “publicize who does and does not vote.”“It proved to be the most effective intervention ever uncovered by an order of magnitude,” said Todd Rogers, a professor of public policy at Harvard who specializes in education and voting behavior.The findings had the power to transform political organizing, especially for Democratic candidates who rely on high voter turnout. There was just one problem. “It made people crazy and super irritated and offended,” Dr. Rogers said. “The underlying psychology is that when people feel like they’re going to be held accountable, they’re more likely to do it, but they also get really mad about it.”So political groups backed away from the idea. For the next decade, even as we abandoned our privacy with a swipe of the opt-in button and as apps that rely on social pressure proved effective in dieting, parenting and saving for retirement, political organizers largely ignored the power of peer pressure. Then came 2016 and the election of Donald Trump.“Not only did progressives lose, they were surprised they lost,” said Sangeeth Peruri, the founder and chief executive of VoterCircle, a platform that allows users to tap into their address books and easily identify and encourage (that is, nag) eligible voters. Users have the option to see whether their contacts voted in past elections and whether they are registered Republicans or Democrats.“Losing is one thing, but being surprised you lost is a failing of the system,” Mr. Peruri said. His platform, one of the first, started in 2015. But others soon followed. The shock of Mr. Trump’s election galvanized several developers who had worked on Barack Obama’s presidential campaigns. Steeped in Silicon Valley debates about privacy, they wondered if they’d been too timid about harnessing the enormous trove of publicly available voter data. After all, party affiliation and voting history had long been used internally by campaigns. Maybe political groups needed to stop caring about people’s feelings if it helped get them out to vote.Mikey Dickerson, the executive director of the New Data Project and a former Google engineer who was the chief of the United States Digital Service in the Obama administration, had learned about the Michigan survey in 2008, but he didn’t come up with his VoteWithMe app until 2017. The app outs anyone who didn’t vote in previous elections. (Alyssa Milano and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, looks like you both sat out the 2014 midterms.) It identifies friends in competitive districts (with a fire emoji) and provides handy text-message reminder templates (“You gonna vote?”). “We looked around and didn’t think it had ever been done before — putting voter-file data directly in front of you as the end user,” Mr. Dickerson said.Many in the technology industry initially scoffed at his idea. (“VoteWithMe is a creepy new app that checks your contacts’ voting history,” one article declared.) But several hundred thousand users downloaded VoteWithMe before the midterms, and Mr. Dickerson, who plans to step back and hand the technology over to like-minded groups, said lots of similar apps are springing up ahead of 2020.“I am worried about the foundations of the systems of government surviving and an administration that puts kids in cages and separates families,” he said. “I’m not going to feel bad that some of my friends, unaffected by any of this, have a mild amount of discomfort because some jerk — probably me — can see whether or not they voted.”The weight of peer pressure has a particular pull on millennials. They represent more than 30 percent of eligible voters, about on a par with baby boomers, but have the lowest voter turnout of any age group. Only 49 percent of voters ages 18 to 35 voted in the 2016 presidential election, according to the Pew Research Center. Democratic pollsters predict that increasing turnout among millennials by 10 percentage points would all but guarantee they defeat Mr. Trump in 2020.In an era when privacy feels like a nostalgic notion and our political leanings can be more or less gleaned from where we live, how we dress and what we watch, is there even such a thing as the sanctity of the voting booth? After several celebrities learned the hard way that most states don’t permit photos inside the voting booth, last year California legalized “ballot selfies” (thank you, Kim Kardashian). The day of the midterm elections, 1,000 people a minute were posting Instagram stories with “I Voted” stickers, according to the company.Developers said these turnout apps aren’t intended to shame anyone. As Debra Cleaver, the chief executive of the San Francisco-based Vote.org, a nonprofit group that works to increase voter participation, put it: “We call it social pressure or social validation. ‘Vote shaming’ sounds like it was coined by a reporter because it makes you want to click.” (Fair.) They say their primary purpose is “relational organizing,” or tapping into your social network to tell contacts about a candidate or election (as opposed to the old-fashioned and less effective “operational organizing” that involves dispatching volunteers to cold-call strangers). In other words, coastal liberals can make a difference while fiddling with an app on their sofas (“I know you’re going to vote on Nov. 6, duh, but make sure to remind your friends!” one text template reads), rather than flying to Iowa to knock on strangers’ doors. “I haven’t knocked on a door since 2014,” Ms. Cleaver said.Buffy Wicks, a community organizer and former Obama campaign aide who was recently elected to the California State Assembly, said it doesn’t have to be “an either/or.” She hosted 239 house parties at which she encouraged supporters to download VoterCircle, but she also knocked on 115,559 doors. More than 100,000 people voted for her. The rush to design apps to increase voter turnout is part of a wider push in Silicon Valley — trying to shake the taint of peddling fake news and Russian propaganda — toward “civic tech,” or innovations designed in the public interest. “There’s obviously a P.R. aspect,” Ms. Cleaver said. “But there is no way relational organizing apps can undo the damage that Facebook and Twitter have done.”Nevertheless, the apps are gaining traction. Revolution Messaging and Phone2Action and other liberal websites allow users to pressure their representatives, raise money and support candidates. Republicans have developed apps to, for instance, bolster the National Rifle Association or donate to Mr. Trump’s re-election.All of these, plus the individual apps that the armada of Democratic candidates running for president will soon offer, are enough to give anyone app fatigue. That’s why, in the coming months, Mr. Peruri of VoterCircle plans to rebrand his platform as OutreachCircle, making it a liberal one-stop shop to plan house parties, call your representative, advocate for a cause, give money to a candidate … and, if you’re so inclined, snoop on your friends’ voting history.The goal is to eventually build habits so that rather than just ranting on Twitter, people can use OutreachCircle to keep their communities engaged, essentially performing the function of an old-fashioned neighborhood precinct captain or PTA president. “Our influencers aren’t Katy Perry. It’s your church leader or your high school coach,” Mr. Peruri said.The apps are limited by often incomplete voter data (not even Silicon Valley can make the Board of Elections efficient). But Naseem Makiya, the chief executive of Outvote, an app that worked with MoveOn.org and Beto O’Rourke’s Senate campaign, said preliminary results show that a single text from a friend makes people roughly 10.2 percent more likely to vote. Other developers said peer-to-peer messaging led to a two to three percentage point increase in turnout last November — enough to swing races in tight districts.Robin Wolaner, a 64-year-old retired executive in San Francisco, used VoteWithMe to identify friends and family in competitive districts in Pennsylvania. “Frankly, most of my friends don’t need a reminder to go vote for Nancy Pelosi,” Ms. Wolaner said. As for vote shaming (sorry, I mean social validation), she tried to gingerly remind contacts that their voting history was public.“In some cases I sent messages saying: ‘Can this be right? Did you really skip the last midterm election?’” Ms. Wolaner said. “My kids would tell you I am a natural born nag, so it sort of fit my personality.”Natasha Baker, a 30-year-old lawyer in Washington, said she used VoteWithMe to encourage distant friends and family in Indiana and Virginia to vote. “It’s kind of creepy, I have to admit,” she said. But, she added, “If you have a friend who you can see voted in every election, you don’t have to spend your afternoon on that.”Then there is the voyeuristic urge to snoop. Mr. Dickerson was surprised to see that the VoteWithMe app was trending in the Apple store days after the midterm elections. “It doesn’t make a ton of sense — we’ve had no ads or promotions since voting,” Mr. Dickerson said.But to behavioral scientists, the downloads made perfect sense. “We are intensely social creatures and need to situate ourselves inside the collective,” said Robert Cialdini, a professor emeritus of psychology and marketing at Arizona State University and the author of several books on peer influence. He cited a study he did at a Holiday Inn in Tempe, Ariz. His team compared the usual cards requesting that guests reuse their towels to protect the environment with several alternatives: One added that most guests of the hotel had reused their towels; another said that most guests “who stayed in this room” had reused their towels. The last spurred a compliance rate of 49 percent, the largest spike in towel recycling the hotel had ever seen. “We think we’re free-standing individuals,” Dr. Cialdini said. But we “believe that the choice of our peers will work well for us, too.” Maybe that was why I felt compelled one Sunday afternoon to sit in a coffee shop with a friend and scroll through VoteWithMe with the giddy enthusiasm of a sample sale. I learned that one friend who lives in the West Village, owns a Beto T-shirt and has been known to insufferably quote the Pod Save America bros didn’t vote in the past midterm elections. (You know who you are.) My uncle in Texas who watches Fox News, however, was designated a “strong voter.” There may, however, be a fundamental flaw in the theory driving the apps. As developers work to expand them from hundreds of thousands of downloads during the midterms to mainstream use by millions ahead of the 2020 election, they could be leaving out the very voters Democrats most need to reach.The tendency of people to mimic their social networks — what behavioral scientists call homophily — could backfire in this case. Politically engaged people who download voting apps, and the friends they nag, will probably show up at the polls in greater numbers. But the opposite could be true for those in poor and disenfranchised communities where voting isn’t the norm. Dr. Rogers, the Harvard public policy professor, pointed to a 2015 study that observed social pressure on students by making an SAT prep session sign-up sheet public. Students in the A.P. class signed up in greater numbers when they knew their friends would see the list. Sign-ups in the remedial class, however, where studying wasn’t as socially accepted, decreased. “The increased transparency could have unintended consequences,” Dr. Rogers said, “if you look at your network and see no one votes.”Ms. Cleaver of Vote.org said she worried that this was a blind spot typical of Silicon Valley, an industry dominated by male engineers who are generally from privileged backgrounds. “Everyone wants the solution to increasing voter turnout to be an app, but turnout is low in this country because of decades of racism, sexism and voter suppression,” she said.Ms. Cleaver, a self-described “tech person” who is backed by the start-up accelerator Y Combinator, urged me to write about anything other than these apps. She proposed an article about the perils of voter registration still being tied to the Department of Motor Vehicles when a growing number of young people don’t have driver’s licenses. Or what about the problem with mail-in ballots that require a signature when young people don’t know cursive? Don’t even get her started on new voters being required to print forms. (“I mean, who owns a printer?”)She said that the tech industry, once hailed as a savior, is undergoing an identity crisis for good reason. “The logical conclusion of technology is that it all goes terribly awry,” she said. For the 2020 election, her group, Vote.org, plans to spend millions of dollars on billboards.Amy Chozick is a writer at large for The Times covering business, politics and media, and the author of “Chasing Hillary: On the Trail of the First Woman President Who Wasn’t.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Amy Chozick is a New York-based writer at large for The Times.
@amychozick • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Can Peer Pressure Defeat Trump?. 

Good News: Opioid Prescribing Fell. The Bad? Pain Patients Suffer, Doctors Say. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexHealthSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperHealth|Good News: Opioid Prescribing Fell. The Bad? Pain Patients Suffer, Doctors Say.AdvertisementSupported byGood News: Opioid Prescribing Fell. The Bad? Pain Patients Suffer, Doctors Say.Doctors and insurers are using federal guidelines as cover to turn away patients, experts tell the C.D.C. and Congress. ImageDr. Robert L. Wergin, right, handing a prescription to a pain patient at the Milford Family Medical Center in Milford, Neb.CreditCreditMichael Kirby Smith for The New York TimesBy Jan Hoffman and Abby GoodnoughMarch 6, 2019Three years ago this month, as alarms about the over-prescription of opioid painkillers were sounding across the country, the federal government issued course-correcting guidelines for primary care doctors. Prescriptions have fallen notably since then, and the Trump administration is pushing for them to drop by another third by 2021.But in a letter to be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Wednesday, more than 300 medical experts, including three former White House drug czars, contend that the guidelines are harming one group of vulnerable patients: those with severe chronic pain, who may have been taking high doses of opioids for years without becoming addicted. They say the guidelines are being used as cover by insurers to deny reimbursement and by doctors to turn patients away. As a result, they say, patients who could benefit from the medications are being thrown into withdrawal and suffering renewed pain and a diminished quality of life, even to the point of suicide.The letter writers form an uneasy alliance spanning differing positions on opioids — professors of addiction medicine as well as pain specialists, some patient representatives who have taken money from the pharmaceutical industry, and the former drug czars, from the Obama, Clinton and Nixon administrations.Michael Botticelli, who served as the drug czar under President Obama and now leads the Grayken Center for Addiction at Boston Medical Center, said he signed the letter because “there has been enough anecdotal evidence to raise the alarm bells” about the misuse of the guidelines leading to pain patients losing effective treatment.“The C.D.C. really does need a rigorous evaluation of this because we don’t know how big the problem is,” he said. “Minimally, we need some level of clarification on appropriate use of the guidelines.”Specifically, the letter asks the C.D.C. to emphatically state that treatment decisions for these patients be left to their doctors.“It is imperative that health care professionals and administrators realize that the guideline does not endorse mandated involuntary dose reduction or discontinuation,” the group wrote in the letter, which it also sent to members of relevant congressional committees. A spokeswoman for the C.D.C., Julie Eschelbach, said the guidelines “do not endorse mandated or abrupt dose reduction or discontinuation.” She added that the agency has several studies underway to examine the guidelines’ impact, and has published a “pocket guide” for doctors on tapering.The guidelines are nonbinding, but many of them have become enshrined in state regulations. Therefore, said Dr. Stefan G. Kertesz, an author of the letter who teaches addiction medicine at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, “it’s normal to say from the top: ‘This needs a clarification because we don’t want people hurt.’”Others say the problem lies not with the guidelines, which urge non-opioid therapies as the first-line treatment for chronic pain, but with their misapplication.“What the guidelines are being blamed for versus what they actually recommend are two different things,” said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, who ran the C.D.C. when the guidelines were developed.Experts in addiction medicine distinguish patients who need opioids for chronic pain from people addicted to the drugs: while some patients are physically dependent and will go into withdrawal if the drugs are withheld, the opioids help them function, despite severe pain.“But just because you’re on a higher dose doesn’t mean you’re addicted,” said Dr. Daniel P. Alford, a professor who directs addiction medicine education at the Boston University School of Medicine, who signed the letter.Addiction, he said, is “a behavioral maladaptation where the medication takes over their lives, and they continue to use despite negative consequences.”The guidelines say doctors should discuss the costs of a high-dose regimen with pain patients and press for a prudent taper. They do not say those patients’ drugs should be summarily reduced. They advise doctors to prescribe opioids to new patients only for a short time, and with a daily dose below 90 morphine milligram equivalents. That recommendation has prompted many states and monitoring systems to impose a hard stop at that level for all patients except those with cancer or in end-of-life care.“Who says that 90 is a magical threshold?” Dr. Alford asked. “There’s no good evidence. Yes, we should avoid escalating doses, but how do we treat people who are already on high doses?”Dr. Frieden defended 90 M.M.E., as the measurement is known, as a responsible ceiling. “The death rates just go up exponentially,” he said, for people on very high doses of opioids.Dr. Frieden said more doctors should be allowed to get federal permission to prescribe buprenorphine, a lower-risk opioid drug that can effectively manage opioid dependence while treating pain, as an alternative to more dangerous painkillers.(Dr. Frieden was charged last summer with groping a woman; he pleaded not guilty and the case is still pending.)The letter to the C.D.C. echoes a November resolution by the American Medical Association, which protested the “misapplication” of the guidelines “by pharmacists, health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, legislatures, and governmental and private regulatory bodies in ways that prevent or limit access to opioid analgesia.”A central question is how many patients have suffered from their doses being reduced or from being taken off opioids entirely.
A report by the inspector general at the Department of Health and Human Services estimated that in 2016 about 500,000 beneficiaries of Medicare drug plans had been getting prescriptions of 120 M.M.E. or greater for three months or longer — a figure that doesn’t fully capture the current affected population.Accompanying the experts’ letter are testimonials by hundreds of pain patients detailing struggles in the wake of the guidelines.The opioid prescribing rate has been falling since 2012, but the amount prescribed per person is still about three times higher than it was in 1999, at the beginning of the addiction crisis, according to the C.D.C. While overdose deaths because of prescription opioids have begun leveling off, deaths from illicit fentanyl and its analogues increased by more than 45 percent in 2017 alone, a phenomenon that the letter writers attribute in part to the crackdown on pain pill prescriptions. Dr. John Brooklyn, who runs two large addiction treatment programs in Vermont, gave one example. A 61-year-old patient, disabled by a back injury, had been functioning well for years on 225 M.M.E., he said. Invoking the guidelines, his pain doctor started cutting his dose by 40 milligrams a month.“When he was at 120 M.M.E.,” said Dr. Brooklyn, “he was in such severe pain that he was buying opioids on the street. He barely ate, lost 40 pounds, couldn’t pay rent and then turned to cheap heroin. His doctor continued to reduce his dose and, at 30 M.M.E., the patient called our program.”Dr. Brooklyn put the patient on methadone, a type of opioid approved to treat addiction as well as to manage chronic pain. “It was like watering a dehydrated plant,” he said.Dr. Joanna L. Starrels, an associate professor of medicine at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and one of the experts who helped draft the C.D.C. guidelines, said chronic pain patients are an especially fragile group. “Some with severe persistent pain are barely getting by,” she said. “They are sometimes homebound, unable to work or fully participate in most of the rewarding aspects of life.” Their rates of depression are high, she said, and they have few reliable treatment alternatives.Research that looks at the effect of dose reduction on such patients is in its infancy, she said. In fact the guidelines include a plea for research to evaluate their efficacy.That the guidelines have had widespread impact is not in question. While a handful of hospital systems and states had adopted opioid prescription limits before 2016, the number of institutions have since shot up.In its annual survey of hospital-based pharmacies last year, the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists asked about opioid monitoring for the first time. In preliminary results, 41 percent said they had done so and some cited the C.D.C. guidelines.By the end of 2016, seven states had passed legislation limiting opioid prescriptions; by October 2018, 33 states had enacted laws with some type of limit, guidance or requirement related to opioids, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.Aetna, one of the country’s largest health insurers, placed a limit of 90 M.M.E.s per day on its members last year based on the C.D.C. guidelines, said Ethan Slavin, a company spokesman. The stricter daily limits “are part of our efforts to help reduce the potential for misuse and diversion of the drugs,” he said, adding that prescribers who believe higher doses are needed can seek special permission by consulting with Aetna’s experts.A study last year found that insurers overall were not doing enough to increase access to alternative pain treatments, including therapeutic massage, acupuncture and non-opioid drugs.Dr. Anna Lembke, medical director of addiction medicine at Stanford, declined to sign the letter, saying the guidelines were sufficiently moderate.The remedy to the problems detailed in the letter, she said, was to educate primary care doctors about how to provide “safe, compassionate, patient-centered tapers when medically indicated,” which can be a protracted, delicate process.Dr. Kertesz acknowledged that tapering was a worthy goal. “But more typically what we are seeing,” he said, “are people who report non-consensual tapers.”RelatedOpinion | Maia SzalavitzWhen the Cure Is Worse Than the DiseaseFeb. 9, 2019Correction: March 7, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated Dr. Thomas Frieden's views on the C.D.C. guidelines for opioid prescriptions. He said higher doses greatly increase risk; he did not say they were not worth the risk.Jan Hoffman is a health behaviors reporter for Science, covering law, opioids, doctor-patient communication and other topics. She previously wrote about young adolescence and family dynamics for Style and was the legal affairs correspondent for Metro.
@JanHoffmanNYT A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Rule Led to Big Drop in Opioid Prescriptions; Too Big, Some Doctors Say. 

Opinion | The State of the Union Address, Critiqued - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The State of the Union Address, CritiquedAdvertisementOpinionSupported bylettersThe State of the Union Address, CritiquedReaders viewed the speech as “rehashed rhetoric” and “showmanship” and doubted that it would lead to action by Congress.Feb. 6, 2019Image CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesTo the Editor:Re “Asking for Unity, Trump Renews Bid for Border Wall” (front page, Feb. 6):President Trump delivered a speech that was more showmanship than a serious discussion of the state of the nation and of his proposals to solve the problems that confront us. News outlets almost universally analyzed the speech from a political perspective. Commentators pondered the effect on the president’s base, women and other demographic groups. Much time was spent analyzing what drew applause and from whom.The current president and his recent predecessors have turned the State of the Union into a campaign rally featuring a laundry list of hot-button issues, repeating well-worn talking points. They introduce too many guests chosen to illustrate these talking points and to draw mandatory applause. They fail to use it for serious consideration of issues and for making realistic legislative proposals. And the length of these speeches taxes attention spans.If the presidents do not change the tenor of these speeches to make them more inspiring and meaningful, we should consider Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s suggestion that the State of the Union report be delivered in writing.William F. WerwaissNew YorkTo the Editor:President Trump’s call for $500 million to fight childhood cancer was greeted with deservedly loud applause. Does it not occur to anyone that he wants more than 10 times that amount for his wall? Here’s a deal we can all live with: $5.7 billion to fight childhood cancer, and $500 million for the wall. That way Mr. Trump can say he got money for the wall, and we can get our priorities straight in this country.John M. ImperialeHarvey Cedars, N.J.To the Editor:I cannot be the only person who found President Trump’s State of the Union address simply rehashed rhetoric. How many times do we have to hear his horror story version of what goes on at our southern border? Not surprisingly, the president’s speech lacked any mention of voting rights, sensible gun control or climate change. Perhaps an hour and 22 minutes wasn’t enough time.Stacey Abrams, however, in giving the Democratic response, addressed those missed issues and a lot more, and did it in under 15 minutes. As a bonus, she was passionate, wholly engaged and inspiring.Ms. Abrams, who lost a contentious battle for governor of Georgia and is not a member of Congress, was well chosen to give the Democratic response. She did an extraordinary job. Her belief in an America shaped by all of us together was in sharp contrast to the president’s self-glory-filled rhetoric. Patricia WellerEmmitsburg, Md.To the Editor:Speaker Nancy Pelosi showed her disrespectful attitude for all Americans to see Tuesday night. Could you imagine what the media would have done if a Republican had sat up there behind President Barack Obama making scowl faces and looking at papers all night? Wayne TaralsonSioux Falls, S.D.To the Editor:Re “Where’s the Unity, Mr. Trump?” (editorial, Feb. 6):The lofty goals put forth in President Trump’s State of the Union speech, even surrounded by anodyne patriotic themes and military reminiscences, will be going nowhere fast in terms of legislation and action under a president who has no idea how to work with Congress, especially a divided one.We must continue to express our disapproval of this administration but also need to forge ahead ourselves to achieve change. As your editorial said, “the wisest course for citizens interested in a stronger union is to focus on building it themselves.”Speak up! Speak out! And vote! D.I.Y., America!Nancy SellarNew YorkA version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: State of the Union Address, Critiqued. 

White House Ambitions Cloud Democratic Hopes to Win the Senate - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|White House Ambitions Cloud Democratic Hopes to Win the SenateAdvertisementSupported byWhite House Ambitions Cloud Democratic Hopes to Win the SenateImageFellow Democrats have urged Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana to run for Senate, but he is considering a presidential run in 2020.CreditCreditThom Bridge/Independent Record, via Associated PressBy Glenn ThrushMarch 2, 2019WASHINGTON — Democratic leaders are convinced that Steve Bullock, the popular governor of Montana, would give the party its best shot at unseating Senator Steve Daines, a freshman Republican, when he stands for re-election next year in a state that President Trump carried by 20 points.But Mr. Bullock has a bigger — if far less attainable — aspiration: running for president.And so it has gone for Democratic leaders as they struggle to recruit a solid slate of candidates that they will need to net the three or four seats necessary to take control of the Senate next year. Four top-tier potential Democratic Senate candidates — John Hickenlooper in Colorado, Stacey Abrams in Georgia, Beto O’Rourke in Texas and Mr. Bullock — are seriously exploring presidential campaigns, forsaking statewide campaigns within their grasp, at least for now, for a national one that would be the longest of long shots.A fifth potential recruit, Richard Ojeda, resigned his State Senate seat in West Virginia to run for president, only to withdraw last month — without committing to challenge Senator Shelley Moore Capito.“This isn’t a bad map like 2018 because we have very few seats to defend,” said Guy Cecil, the former executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. “But the opportunities to pick up seats are limited, and we need the best candidates possible to win the majority. It’s critical that some of the long shots in the presidential primary consider the Senate this year.”Party leaders, guided by Senator Chuck Schumer and Senator Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada, the committee chairwoman, believe they need to nail down Mr. Bullock, and top recruits like him, if they have any chance of riding an anti-Trump wave to Senate control. But it hasn’t been easy.The Democratic Party’s bench is shallow in states that have been dominated by Republicans, like Georgia, Montana, North Carolina and Texas. It is rare for the party to have first-class candidates in such states, let alone talents like Ms. Abrams, Mr. Bullock and Mr. O’Rourke. And getting them to stay at home has proved nearly impossible.Mr. Bullock has told people around him that he has absolutely no intention of running for anything other than the White House, and is concerned about the strain on his family. His wife, Lisa Downs Bullock, a mathematician by training and mother of three, has told friends that she would relocate to Washington only if they were moving into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, according to two people familiar with their plans.“He’s got the skills to be a really good president,” said Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana — sticking his buzz cut head out of a Senate elevator last week to make one final point. “But, you know, I think he’s got the skills to be a really good senator, too.”It is still early — Mr. Schumer, the Democratic leader, told Mr. Bullock last month, “you can always change your mind” if presidential aspirations do not pan out, according to aides briefed on the exchange.ImageSenator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, has been trying to recruit Democrats to challenge vulnerable Republicans for Senate seats in 2020.CreditErin Schaff/The New York TimesThere is plenty of precedent for that. Successful Senate candidates have announced their intention to run as late as the summer before an election. Marco Rubio retired from the Senate to run for president in 2016, left retirement after that campaign fizzled and easily won re-election that fall.But for the coming Senate campaign, few years have been as unpredictable as 2020. The possibilities for Democrats range from a one-seat loss to a six-seat gain, according to pollsters and consultants working on races. That the Democrats are hosting the most crowded presidential casting call in a generation is not helping.The latest new wild card: Ms. Abrams, believed to have been considering a second run for governor of Georgia, is seriously examining a Senate or presidential campaign. She will make an announcement by mid-April, according to a person with direct knowledge of her planning.Revulsion toward Mr. Trump among the Democratic base led to a flood of House candidates last year, putting in play Republican House seats that Democrats had not sought in years. The same rage has produced 15 declared presidential candidates for 2020 so far.But that flood has yet to materialize in Senate races, which many recruits consider costly, exhausting and unglamorous.Mr. Schumer and Ms. Cortez Masto have had some victories. Mark Kelly, a retired astronaut who is married to former Representative Gabrielle Giffords, is challenging Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona, who was appointed to the seat vacated after the death of John McCain. Mr. Schumer is confident that he will have a strong recruit to challenge Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who has been hugely popular in her state but is facing headwinds in a more partisan political environment.But they have had some failures. This week, Mr. O’Rourke let it be known that he would not challenge Senator John Cornyn next year in Texas, shrugging off Mr. Schumer’s dogged recruitment efforts. Public polling in recent days has indicated that Mr. O’Rourke was tied with Mr. Cornyn after his surprisingly narrow loss to Senator Ted Cruz in November.Internal polling by the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee painted a less rosy picture, but Mr. Schumer went all out in pursuit of Mr. O’Rourke, even dispatching a close ally, Randi Weingarten, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, to El Paso. Ms. Weingarten had a long conversation with Mr. O’Rourke and his wife about the seat, but the couple pretty much ruled out a Senate candidacy, according to people briefed on the exchange.In North Carolina, Democratic leaders have thus far been unable to sell a Senate run to the state’s attorney general, Josh Stein, who is Mr. Schumer’s top pick to challenge the incumbent, Senator Thom Tillis, a freshman. Mr. Stein would have the fund-raising prowess to compete in a race where expenditures by the candidates are likely to exceed $100 million.Mr. Hickenlooper, a former two-term Colorado governor with a centrist bent, would seem perfect to challenge Senator Cory Gardner, who might be the most endangered Republican up for re-election next year, in a state that voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and for Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012.ImageJohn Hickenlooper, a former governor of Colorado, has already turned down repeated entreaties by Democratic Party leaders to consider a Senate bid.CreditAaron Ontiveroz/The Denver Post, via Getty ImagesBut Mr. Hickenlooper, who is expected to announce his decision on a presidential run next week in Denver, has already turned down repeated entreaties by the Schumer and Cortez Masto team.Likewise, Mr. Tester and other high-profile Democrats of Montana, including Jim Messina, Mr. Obama’s 2012 campaign manager, have been prodding Mr. Bullock to reconsider.But the Senate is a tough sell for governors, who find it hard to go from running states to running legislative errands as freshmen, and it is an even tougher sell for Westerners who would have to endure long round-trip flights to Washington.Operatives close to Mr. Schumer and Ms. Cortez Masto view Mr. Hickenlooper as a soft “no” — in part because of Mr. Gardner’s vulnerability. That is exceeded only by Senator Doug Jones, the Democrat who triumphed in a special election in Alabama only after his opponent, Roy S. Moore, was accused of sexually assaulting teenage girls, according to recent polling.But Mr. Schumer has made it clear, through intermediaries, that Mr. Hickenlooper has less time to tarry than Mr. Bullock does. Two potentially well-funded candidates, Mike Johnston, a former state senator, and Andrew Romanoff, the former speaker of the Colorado House, have already entered the race, and others may soon follow.Ms. Cortez Masto and Mr. Schumer have adopted a tag-team approach. Ms. Cortez Masto patiently hears out potential candidates’ complaints and concerns, while Mr. Schumer hammers away at the fundamental political reality — namely, that each recruit has a much better chance of being elected to the Senate than the presidency.Mr. Schumer, forever tie-deep in party fund-raising, has become especially active this year. He has made it something of a personal project to persuade Ms. Abrams, who lost a bitter governor’s race last year, to challenge Senator David Perdue in his first re-election campaign. Mr. Schumer recruited Ms. Abrams to deliver a well-received rebuttal last month to Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address.The event demonstrated Ms. Abrams’s ease in front of a national audience, but also her political savvy: Her team placed the audience a few feet farther away than at most similar speeches, so that potential critics could not focus on the facial expressions of the crowd behind her.While Mr. Schumer’s appeals to Ms. Abrams have been more frequent, his partner’s one meeting with Ms. Abrams may have had a bigger effect.Ms. Cortez Masto spoke passionately about what it was like to be the first Hispanic woman elected to the Senate, which made a big impression on Ms. Abrams, according to a person close to her.Jonathan Martin contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Spurning Senate Bids, Ambitious Democrats Raise Sights to Presidency. 

Can America Still Build Big? A California Rail Project Raises Doubts - The New York Times
U.S.|Can America Still Build Big? A California Rail Project Raises DoubtsImageA portion of the California high-speed rail project, in Fresno, Calif. Gov. Gavin Newsom’s comments on the project this month raised questions about its prospects and the nation’s ability to complete big infrastructure plans.CreditCreditJim Wilson/The New York TimesSectionsSkip to contentSkip to site indexCan America Still Build Big? A California Rail Project Raises DoubtsThe state’s governor has sent an expensive high-speed rail project into disarray. If California can’t build it, who can?A portion of the California high-speed rail project, in Fresno, Calif. Gov. Gavin Newsom’s comments on the project this month raised questions about its prospects and the nation’s ability to complete big infrastructure plans.CreditCreditJim Wilson/The New York TimesSupported byBy Thomas Fuller, Jennifer Medina and Conor DoughertyFeb. 25, 2019FRESNO, Calif. — In a neighborhood littered with derelict warehouses, Miguel Arias pointed to a wide strip of dirt where California’s high-speed rail, one of America’s most ambitious and divisive infrastructure projects, has been taking shape.The son of Mexican farmworkers and a newly elected member to the City Council in this sprawling Central Valley city, Mr. Arias is hoping the train will deliver to Fresno the California dream that long ago bypassed the impoverished region.“We’ve been feeding the nation for decades and now we have a chance to feed ourselves,” Mr. Arias said. “This will be the first step into the middle class.”But California’s newly installed governor, Gavin Newsom, in his first major address to lawmakers this month, sent the project into disarray. The governor announced that the project, which was expected to connect the Central Valley to Silicon Valley, would be dramatically scaled back because of exorbitant costs.For now, the train would begin and end in the Central Valley, the governor said, making no mention of a connection to the coast, where most of the region’s people — and opportunities — reside.Mr. Newsom has since sought to walk back his remarks. But the portion of the rail line to Silicon Valley is still underfunded by at least $9 billion, and the governor’s comments have prompted deeper questions about America’s ability to think big and work together on complex public works projects, an area that seemed to have bipartisan support during the last presidential election before it was perennially deferred.If anything, the confusion and recriminations over high-speed rail seem to show that the nation’s partisan divide extends to infrastructure. Mr. Newsom’s speech led to a spirited Twitter exchange with President Trump, which then devolved into a much more serious — and for California a potentially financially calamitous — dispute over funding. The Trump administration has canceled or is trying to claw back as much as $3.5 billion in federal allocations from California.For Mr. Newsom, who has been governor less than two months, the rail episode was a searing introduction to the combative national political scene in the Trump era. The California media called the governor’s position incomprehensible, critics called the project a train to nowhere and a cartoon mockingly portrayed a high-speed train full of cows.ImageMr. Newsom announced this month that the high-speed rail would be dramatically scaled back because of exorbitant costs. He has since sought to walk back some of his remarks.CreditJim Wilson/The New York Times“He pretty much killed the project with that speech,” said Ray LaHood, who served as transportation secretary in the Obama administration. “I was shocked. It was very shortsighted and no vision for rail.”Although California’s project has gotten the most attention, other states are considering high-speed rail projects. Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington has proposed an international high-speed line that would connect Vancouver to Seattle and Portland. Private investors are pushing for a train that would link Dallas to Houston. But no other project is further along than California’s.Mr. Newsom campaigned on a vow to tackle the state’s extreme inequality. But his high-speed rail position seemed, if anything, to highlight that California’s new divide is between east and west, more than north and south.Of any state in the union, California might seem best positioned to carry out big infrastructure projects: Flush with revenues, the state is controlled by a single political party, and its citizens regularly vote to raise their own taxes for a variety of projects and government services.“California built the world’s greatest water conveyance system, one of the great highway systems, a great university system,” said Dan Richard, who stepped down as chairman of the rail project’s board of directors on Tuesday. “When did we lose our confidence in our ability to do this stuff?”Even before Mr. Newsom’s comments, the project was troubled by repeated delays and cost overruns. The overall cost, estimated at around $45 billion when financing was approved by voters a decade ago, has now swelled to as much as $98 billion.California’s High-Speed Rail Authority, which is running the project, was established 23 years ago. During that time China has built 16,000 miles of high-speed rail.The first phase of California’s project, 119 miles through the Central Valley, will not be completed until 2022.Even if it does continue, the project is likely to face more legal challenges and opposition. Though surveys suggest it still has majority support, especially among younger voters, many in the state, particularly in Republican pockets, oppose it.ImageConstruction on the rail line in Fresno. The train is underfunded by at least $9 billion.CreditJim Wilson/The New York Times“I think high-speed rail is dead in California in this form,” said Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican who represents Bakersfield. “The governors’s own words rightfully acknowledged, this costs too much and has taken take too long.”But the project also has some disinterested skeptics who say they are not convinced that it made economic sense in the first place.“I am a huge fan of infrastructure investment for many many reasons,” said Lawrence H. Summers, who served as Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. “But in the case of California high-speed rail, I am very skeptical as to whether the numbers work in terms of the benefits exceeding the cost.”The places where high-speed rail has been most successful, Mr. Summers notes, in Asia and Europe, are more densely populated and therefore more conducive. America is a largely suburban nation where most commuters drive to work alone. “America is the land of sprawl,” he said.The need for increased infrastructure investment has been one of America’s few remaining bipartisan issues, although left and right differ over whether public money or private money would finance it. President Barack Obama made reinvesting in roads, bridges and power plants a cornerstone of the 2009 economic stimulus package, and during the 2016 presidential campaign seemingly the only disagreement Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump had on infrastructure was about which of their administrations would spend more on it. The issue unites truckers and train buffs, unions and Wall Street, economists from the left and right.And yet, when it comes to spending the money — and actually getting things built — very little progress has been made. Following a brief spike during the recession, government investment has hovered around 3.3 percent of gross domestic product for the past few years, which is the lowest since the 1940s. In the meantime, roads, bridges and train tracks have gotten steadily older while proposals for new projects are delayed by political intransigence and legal delays.America’s short-horizon election cycles, especially in the House of Representatives, are not in sync with the time it takes to build such massive projects, making them politically vulnerable.In California, high-speed rail had been promoted by Republicans and Democrats alike for decades before the first shovel broke ground in 2015. It was Pete Wilson, a Republican governor, who in 1996 signed the legislation establishing the California High-Speed Rail Authority. Another Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, put the project’s financing on the ballot in 2008. Later, Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, became the project’s biggest booster and funder. In the meantime, polls showed Republican support for the project eroding.“There are so many obstacles to changing the status quo, and so many litigation opportunities at each stage, that we’re really looking at 20 years of consultants and lawyers and bureaucrats before these projects get started, and it’s almost impossible to maintain political and taxpayer support over that period,” said Jennifer Hernandez, a partner at Holland & Knight who leads the law firm’s West Coast environmental and land-use practice.ImageThe first phase of California’s project, 119 miles through the Central Valley, will not be completed until 2022.CreditJim Wilson/The New York TimesMr. Richard, who was chair of the High-Speed Rail Authority board for seven years, said the main hurdles for high-speed rail have been the complexities of land acquisition and a time-consuming slew of lawsuits.The wealthy San Francisco suburb of Atherton joined a walnut farmer and the Kings County Board of Supervisors in a lawsuit arguing that the project should be stopped because it would not meet a stipulation of the project’s financing: that the train would connect San Francisco to Los Angeles in 2 hours 40 minutes. In October a judge ruled that the project could proceed.A dozen lawsuits have targeted environmental aspects of the projects, including another suit by the town of Atherton that argued, among other things, that the rail authority had conducted an inadequate analysis of where the train should be elevated along the San Francisco peninsula. A court ruled that the analysis had been properly done.Mr. Richard said California’s strict environmental regulations have become a pretext for anyone who wanted to stop the project.“The environmental process has become about litigation protection,” he said. “You’re going to get sued so you’ve got to go out and basically do process upon process, study upon study to make sure that somebody cannot find some toehold for litigation.”Mr. Arias, the City Council member whose district is filled with homeless encampments, toxic landfills from old, shuttered factories and the stench of carcasses being rendered into tallow, sees high-speed rail as a social ladder for thousands of families, and a way for young people to connect with the thriving economy of the San Francisco Bay Area through jobs and education. It is also, he argues, an environmental salve that could reduce automobile traffic in a region of the state that suffers from serious air pollution.Fresno ranks second among big cities in the nation, after Detroit, for concentrated poverty — poor residents living in extremely poor neighborhoods — according to the Brookings Institution.“This is extremely personal,” Mr. Arias said as he drove his electric car through his district. “When people speak so critically of high-speed rail — calling it a boondoggle or whatever — they are not seeing the depressed neighborhoods every day that would benefit from it.”“To take that away would be unconscionable,” he said.Thomas Fuller reported from Fresno, Jennifer Medina from Los Angeles and Conor Dougherty from San Francisco. Michael Tackett contributed reporting from Washington. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: California Curtails a Rail Project, Undercutting Dreams of Building Big. 

Opinion | Few Are Inspired to Follow America’s Lead on Iran - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Few Are Inspired to Follow America’s Lead on IranAdvertisementOpinionSupported byFew Are Inspired to Follow America’s Lead on IranA conference tries to rally support for a political and economic fight, to little effect.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 15, 2019ImageThe Trump administration's two-day conference on Iran and the Middle East opened in Warsaw on Wednesday.CreditCreditMichael Sohn/Associated PressNearly 30 years ago, the United States used its diplomatic clout to persuade Israel and its Arab neighbors to meet publicly for the first time, at the 1991 Madrid Peace Conference, which opened the door to greater Arab acceptance of Israel.On Wednesday and Thursday, leaders of Israel and Arab states met publicly again, at an international conference in Warsaw staged by the Trump administration. But the goal of this meeting, drawing officials of some 60 nations, was not peacemaking. It was to rally support for economic and political war with Iran, for which the United States has found little enthusiasm among allies since withdrawing from the 2015 deal that restricts Iran’s nuclear program.Administration officials initially tried to promote their agenda under an amorphous “seeking peace in the Middle East” rubric. But there was no denying the real purpose, especially when Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s militantly anti-Iran prime minister, sent out a since-deleted tweet that proclaimed “an open meeting with representatives of leading Arab countries, that are sitting down together with Israel in order to advance the common interest of war with Iran.” Mr. Netanyahu’s office on Thursday released a video of a closed meeting in which senior Arab officials played down concerns about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and defended Israel’s right to defend itself, while denouncing Iran as the greatest threat to regional peace.While the Trump administration, Mr. Netanyahu and Sunni Arab leaders in the Persian Gulf may have enjoyed this anti-mullah pep rally, it highlighted how few major powers are cheering along. France, Germany and Britain, along with Russia and China, still support the agreement they helped the Obama administration negotiate with Iran. Iran itself continues to uphold it, according to American intelligence agencies.Britain sent its foreign minister to the conference, but France and Germany, apparently reluctant to be part of such a bellicose bashing, sent lower level diplomats. China sent no one, nor did Russia, which was busy conducting a meeting on Syria with Turkey and Iran. Even Poland, which hosted the Warsaw conference at the request of the administration, believes in the Iran nuclear agreement.Major European companies left the Iranian market after President Trump withdrew from the pact and reinstated American sanctions. But European governments, struggling to keep the deal alive in defiance of Mr. Trump, last week began a barter system that could enable some smaller companies to continue to do business with Iran. That drew an aggressive response at the conference from Vice President Mike Pence, who denounced the Europeans for trying to “break American sanctions against Iran’s murderous revolutionary regime.” Mr. Trump denounces Iran for its ballistic missile program, support for terrorism, jailing American and Iranian political prisoners, its involvement in Syria, Yemen, Lebanon and Iraq, and 40 years of repression at home. As Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told a television interviewer, the administration is counting on Iranians, under growing economic pressure, to “rise up” and change their regime.Yet Iran is not alone in destabilizing the region. The administration undercuts its credibility when one of its chief allies in its campaign against Iran is Saudi Arabia, whose de facto ruler is believed to have ordered the murder of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi and has directed a war in Yemen that Congress has denounced for its toll in innocent lives.If the administration wants to stand up to the challenges posed by Iran, it will only be able to do so with global support, particularly from its longstanding democratic allies in Europe.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Few Follow America’s Lead on Iran. 

NASA Prioritizes Moon Landings Under Trump Budget Proposal - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexScienceSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperScience|NASA Prioritizes Moon Landings Under Trump Budget ProposalAdvertisementSupported byNASA Prioritizes Moon Landings Under Trump Budget ProposalThe agency would get $600 million for infrastructure and research in support of lunar missions, but astronauts won’t return until 2028 at the earliest.ImageA model of NASA’s Space Launch System rocket was assembled at the White House before President Trump addressed a meeting of the National Space Council in June.CreditCreditJonathan Ernst/ReutersBy Kenneth ChangMarch 11, 2019In a shifting of priorities at NASA, the Trump administration’s proposed budget for next year adds $600 million for an outpost high above the moon and the beginning of development for landers to take astronauts back to the lunar surface.But in keeping with the administration’s preference for the private sector, the proposal emphasizes a more commercial approach for moon exploration as it seeks budgetary reductions in other areas. It postpones a major upgrade for the giant rocket NASA is developing, and NASA’s science missions could face a 10 percent reduction, including another attempt to cancel an upcoming flagship telescope. Congress has restored such cuts in earlier years.While many other domestic programs face sizable cuts in the Trump administration’s budget, NASA overall fares well by comparison. The budget seeks a little more than $21 billion for fiscal year 2020, which starts Oct. 1. That is $1 billion more than the administration proposed for this fiscal year, but $500 million less than the $21.5 billion that Congress ultimately decided. [Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]In an address at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida, Jim Bridenstine, the space agency’s administrator, repeatedly described the budget as “strong” and said, “We have strong bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress.”President Obama had wanted NASA to focus on sending astronauts to Mars, but the Trump administration has pivoted to the moon as a closer, more immediate destination. The first element of its plan is what NASA calls the Gateway, an outpost orbiting the moon. Spacecraft would ferry astronauts between the Gateway and the lunar surface. By 2028, the Trump administration says that astronauts could return, nearly 60 years after NASA’s first moon landings.The Gateway is to be a collaboration between various space agencies, much like the International Space Station. Canada was the first to agree to take part, announcing last month that it would provide robotics to the lunar outpost.ImageNASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine, left, and Elon Musk, SpaceX’s C.E.O., took questions after the successful Crew Dragon launch at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Fla., this month.CreditJohn Raoux/Associated PressInstead of major government-run programs like Apollo in the 1960s or even Constellation, the return-to-the-moon program under President George W. Bush, the latest approach largely bankrolls a competition among private companies.The budget proposal includes $363 million for development of landers for cargo and eventually astronauts, and NASA recently asked for industry input on such landers. The budget proposal did not lay out details of how the competition would be run. In future years, the financing would increase; NASA budget officials project spending $2.3 billion in 2023.To free up money for the landers, the budget postpones an upgrade of the second stage of the Space Launch System, the heavy lift rocket NASA has been developing for deep space missions, but the greater capability is not needed for the spacecraft’s early missions. The budget would also shift the launching of a robotic mission to one of Jupiter’s moons, the Europa Clipper, from the Space Launch System, to a cheaper commercial rocket. The proposal would start financing a new mission to Mars sometime in the late 2020s or early 2030s that would bring Martian rocks back to Earth for closer study.Just like last year, the administration again seeks to cancel Wfirst, or Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope, a big astronomy mission that is to come after the much-delayed James Webb Space Telescope. Congress, however, decided to continue financing for Wfirst.ImageThe Orion crew module, which the Space Launch System would carry, on display at the White House in July.CreditPablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated PressThe administration has also eased up on trying to cut NASA’s earth sciences missions, which produce data used by scientists who study climate change. The proposed budget again tries to eliminate two missions under development but sustains two others it had tried to cancel previously.Mr. Bridenstine noted that the earth science budgets during the first two years of the Trump administration were well funded. (That is because Congress did not go along with the administration’s proposed cuts.) He also spoke of the changing climate and its effects on the planet without any hedging skepticism voiced by other administration officials.“Carbon dioxide is in the atmosphere in levels we’ve never seen before,” Mr. Bridenstine said. “We are responsible for that. It is a greenhouse gas. NASA has an obligation to continue studying these activities.”The budget proposal makes only passing mention of the piece of last year’s budget proposal that yielded the most controversy — the phasing out of the International Space Station by the end of 2024. Instead, the document states, “By 2025, the budget envisions commercial capabilities on the International Space Station as well as new commercial facilities and platforms to continue the American presence in Earth orbit.”Earlier reporting on NASA and the Trump administrationCut the Science Budget? Not So FastMarch 11, 2019NASA Budgets for a Trip to the Moon, but Not While Trump Is PresidentFeb. 11, 2018How Many Space Stations Does This Planet Need?Oct. 22, 2018Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.
@kchangnyt A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Budget Plan Sets Stage for a Return to the Moon. 

Opinion | We Don’t Need to Read the Mueller Report - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|We Don’t Need to Read the Mueller ReportAdvertisementOpinionSupported byWe Don’t Need to Read the Mueller ReportEven if it is never released, the public already knows enough.By Caroline FredricksonMs. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society.March 22, 2019ImageThe exterior of the Department of Justice. The special counsel submitted his report to Attorney General William Barr on Friday.CreditCreditJoshua Roberts/ReutersPeople lie to hide the truth. They lie to hide crimes. And while everyone is dying for a peek at Robert Mueller’s bombshell report to see if he says any crimes were committed by the Trump campaign in 2016, the truth is actually already out there, hidden in plain sight.Mr. Mueller’s report may never go public, but we don’t need a peek at the recommendations he delivered on Friday to Attorney General William Barr to credibly assess that something unethical and likely illegal went on in 2016. The repeated lies told by Trump campaign staff members — lies about their connections to Russian figures — already spin a grand tale of conspiracy and deceit. And it’s a tale so suspect and sordid that President Trump and his associates felt the need to lie to hide it from law enforcement.This is not conjecture; some of Mr. Trump’s people are already in jail, having been convicted in federal court for lying to investigators about their connections to and interactions with Russians during the 2016 campaign. Others have pleaded guilty to similar crimes, which — it bears repeating — is what one does when presented with overwhelming evidence of one’s guilt. Still others await trial. Many more have been indicted.There’s the top Trump campaign official Paul Manafort, who is serving time for lying about his history of lobbying for Russian interests and sharing Trump campaign polling data with a Russian intelligence asset during the campaign.And there’s the close Trump associate Roger Stone, recently indicted on charges of lying about communications he had with Wikileaks before it released damaging information about Hillary Clinton that law enforcement believes was stolen by Russian hackers.The former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen is headed to jail after admitting that he lied to Congress about a business deal Mr. Trump was pursuing with Russian figures throughout the 2016 campaign, lies Mr. Trump himself echoed on the campaign trail.For another viewOpinion | Noah BookbinderRelease the Whole Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Michael Flynn, the president’s former national security adviser, will soon be doing time after admitting to making false statements to the F.B.I. to conceal December 2016 communications with Russia regarding the sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama administration.Lastly, there is George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to the campaign, who arguably helped precipitate the investigation when he bragged about his knowledge of Russian “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton to an Australian diplomat who then alerted the F.B.I. Mr. Papadopoulos subsequently pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and served time in prison.Then there is the president himself.From the outset, Mr. Trump’s approach to the Mueller investigation has been characterized by paranoia and fear. With his increasingly shrill denials, the president comes across more as someone who fears he will be found out than someone convinced of his innocence.And he has lied to the American people.The president’s version of events regarding his campaign’s interactions with Russia has changed repeatedly since the investigation began. From early assertions during his campaign that he had no business interests in Russia, to claims about his role in issuing false statements about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russians, the president has been caught in numerous, verifiable lies on this issue. It just remains to be seen whether he lied to cover up actual criminal activity, including conspiring with a foreign power to sway an election, or working to obstruct investigations into those ties.Ideally, Mr. Barr will share Mr. Mueller’s report with the country. But if he elects to withhold it, President Trump will no doubt claim victory. He will no doubt treat the absence of an indictment as full vindication. But here’s a truth for the president: He was never going to be indicted. The Department of Justice has a longstanding policy against indicting a sitting president, and the absence of an indictment does not mean no evidence of conspiracy or obstruction was found.ImageRobert MuellerCreditTom Williams/CQ Roll CallIndeed, Mr. Mueller’s report may not be the end of the president’s legal peril, only the beginning. That’s because report or no report, through his prosecutions, referrals, indictments, convictions and subpoenas, Mr. Mueller has already provided the House of Representative with some very clear paths for investigation. So even if the Mueller report simply gets tossed in a drawer in Mr. Barr’s desk for all eternity, there is already sufficient material out there to let the House exercise its newly rediscovered oversight responsibilities and get to the bottom of what happened between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election. Remember, Richard Nixon was not indicted, and there was no commensurate special counsel report in the Watergate scandal. There doesn’t need to be one here to right wrongs so egregious they were apparently worth lying about.RelatedOpinion | The Editorial BoardThe Meaning of the Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Mueller Delivers Report on Trump-Russia Investigation to Attorney GeneralMarch 22, 2019Opinion | James ComeyJames Comey: What I Want From the Mueller ReportMarch 21, 2019Opinion | Noah BookbinderRelease the Whole Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of “Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over” and the forthcoming “The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Correction: March 22, 2019An earlier version of this essay misstated the status of George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser during Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. He served 12 days in prison for lying to the F.B.I. and was released; he is not currently behind bars.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: Who Really Needs to Read the Mueller Report?. 

Opinion | Yes, We Need a Green New Deal. Just Not the One Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Offering. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Yes, We Need a Green New Deal. Just Not the One Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Offering.AdvertisementOpinionSupported byYes, We Need a Green New Deal. Just Not the One Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Offering.There is a better way to reduce harmful emissions.By Steven RattnerMr. Rattner served as counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration.March 20, 2019ImageHigh carbon emissions produced by facilities like the Cheswick coal-fired power plant in Springdale, Penn., could be taxed.CreditCreditRobert Nickelsberg/Getty ImagesYes, of course, we need a Green New Deal to address the world’s most urgent crisis, global warming.Just, please, not the one that a flotilla of liberal politicians, including seven of the top Democratic presidential hopefuls currently in the Senate, are signing up for in droves, like children following the pied piper in the old legend.Our modern-day pied piper, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, is trying to lure us into a set of policies that might help save the planet but at the cost of severely damaging the global economy.To be sure, by the time the resolution was introduced into Congress, some of its most ludicrous provisions (like the deadline of 2030 for a full transition to renewable energy and the immediate halt to any investment in fossil fuels) had been eliminated or watered down.But as important as continuing to prune the absurd or damaging provisions would be to add what is the most effective way to attack climate change: using taxes and market forces rather than government controls to reduce harmful emissions.That has been a problem for decades, at least since Washington got seriously into the business of improving the environment, back in 1970 with the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency — under President Richard Nixon!Politicians prefer that approach because using regulation hides the costs of reducing emissions. The decision, for example, to force improvements in automobile mileage by requiring each manufacturer to improve overall fleet efficiency has added thousands of dollars to the cost of cars.Higher car prices have the countervailing impact of encouraging Americans to hang onto their older, less fuel-efficient cars for a longer time, offsetting at least some of the gains from newer cars. Nor have the regulations, with their many escape hatches, kept consumers from buying even more sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks as gas prices have remained historically low.RelatedMore on carbon taxes.Opinion | The Editorial BoardBest Way to Fight Climate Change? Put an Honest Price on CarbonOct. 29, 2018Fortunately, there is a better way to address the climate problem at far lower cost to the economy: a tax on greenhouse gas emissions. That can be imposed in any number of ways. The 18.4 cent federal gasoline tax, for example, hasn’t been increased since 1993 even as most other developed countries impose far higher levies.A particularly thoughtful proposal has come from the Climate Leadership Council, a bipartisan organization that counts more than 3,300 economists among its signatories. Elegant in its simplicity, the key provision would be the imposition of an escalating tax on carbon. At an initial rate of $43 per ton, the levy would be roughly equivalent to 38.2 cents per gallon of gasoline.To prevent polluters from fleeing overseas, the tax would be imposed on imports from countries lacking a similar provision while exports to those countries would not be taxed. While difficult to implement, that component is important to work out.The entire proceeds from the tax would be rebated to consumers. The council suggests an equal amount for each American; my view would be to exclude the wealthy (who hardly need the estimated $2,000 a year in payments) and disproportionately favor those closer to the bottom.Why are so many economists, even conservative ones, in favor of a massive new tax? Because markets do not always price in “externalities” like pollution. In addition to cutting consumption, raising the price of carbon would arguably do more to encourage development of alternative power sources than all the massive new government spending programs that advocates of the Green New Deal envision.Some technical problems would need to be addressed, such as how the higher prices would filter through inflation calculations and create unintended cost of living adjustments to wages and Social Security payments.But those are details; the key point is that a carbon tax has been judged by climate hawks like Resources for the Future to be far more effective in reaching the goals of the Paris agreement than the well-intended regulations put in place by President Barack Obama and his predecessors.That’s at least part of why the plan enjoys support from an armada of organizations not often on the same page, like Exxon Mobil and Conservation International.Historically, the politics of even small increases in the gasoline tax have been tough. A 2017 proposal in the House to increase tax by just one penny went nowhere. But recent polls suggest that perhaps sentiment is changing; a survey by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago found that 44 percent of Americans favor a carbon tax while only 29 percent oppose one.Given how late we are to the climate battle, maintaining some sensible regulation will also be necessary. But a hefty carbon tax would go a long way toward winning the war.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Steven Rattner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, is a Wall Street executive and a contributing opinion writer. For latest updates and posts, please visit stevenrattner.com and follow me on Twitter (@SteveRattner) and Facebook.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: A Pragmatic Fix for the Climate Crisis. 

Helen Miller, 82, Labor Champion of Home-Care Workers, Dies - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexObituariesSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperObituaries|Helen Miller, 82, Labor Champion of Home-Care Workers, DiesAdvertisementSupported byHelen Miller, 82, Labor Champion of Home-Care Workers, DiesImageHelen Miller, president of Local 880 of the S.E.I.U., led a march of hundreds of home care workers on the State Capitol in Springfield, Ill., in 2005. Mrs. Miller spent two decades fighting for recognition for those workers.CreditCreditDavid KambaBy Richard SandomirMarch 17, 2019Helen Miller, who took care of the sick and the elderly for nearly 40 years in Chicago while championing her fellow home care workers, fighting for greater pay and benefits as a union leader and speaking eloquently about the dignity of their work, died on March 5 in Louisville, Miss., where she was born. She was 82.Her nephew Tony Berry said the cause was complications of stomach cancer. She had been in hospice care at home.Mrs. Miller believed that helping the sick, elderly and disabled was a critical service that the state of Illinois undervalued by paying thousands of workers poverty-level wages and offering no benefits.“I took care of some people for 10 or 15 years, trying to give them to same kind of care I would give my own mother,” she said in a document published in 2003 by the Service Employees International Union when Mrs. Miller was president of Local 880 in Illinois. “And it affects you. When you lose them it hurts the same as if they were a family member.”Her activism began in earnest in the 1980s when she and her fellow workers were still categorized as independent contractors; while their local was affiliated with the S.E.I.U., it did not have the fundamental right of unions to collectively bargain on behalf of its members. That would not come for many years — one of the many battles Mrs. Miller helped to lead.One of Local 880’s earliest fights was to bring all of its workers’ pay up to the prevailing minimum wage of $3.35 an hour; some of their time was deemed by the state as “supervisory pay,” which brought them only $1 an hour. In 1987, when she was a vice president of the local, Mrs. Miller testified emotionally to the Illinois General Assembly in Springfield, asking lawmakers to consider how poorly she and her fellow workers were paid.“It was the first time she had ever testified, and she was really intimidated,” Keith Kelleher, a top organizer during Mrs. Miller’s time at Local 880, recalled in a telephone interview. “She told me, ‘I saw all those fancy people in their fancy suits and dresses and I was just a home-care worker.’ But she told them, ‘Don’t listen with your heads, listen with your hearts. Even if it is legal to pay us $1 an hour, we deserve a living wage.’ ”The legislature soon after raised the workers’ pay to $3.50 an hour (the equivalent of $7.65 today) and eliminated the $1 supervisory pay.ImageThanks to Mrs. Miller’s efforts, home care workers in Illinois saw their wages rise and were allowed to bargain collectively.CreditDavid KambaHelen Ruth Ashford was born on May 26, 1936, to Buster and Clara Ashford, who managed their farm. Helen attended an all-black high school in segregated Louisville, then moved to Chicago after graduating, finding jobs in industrial laundries and marrying Collin Miller, a construction worker. After about 15 years of laundry work, she became a home-care worker.Mrs. Miller continued to work with her home-care clients, taking buses to care for them, even as she became increasingly active in the union.She organized home care workers in other cities and led rallies and protests in Springfield, Ill., and Chicago. Sometimes, she led union members in the gospel song “Victory Is Mine,” other times declaring that they were like Moses telling the Pharaoh, “Let my people go,” Mr. Kelleher recalled.While speaking in 1995 at a White House Conference on Aging, she told the delegates about the home-care workers’ ongoing struggle for pay and respect.“I love my job,” she said. “But please listen to me. We are never listened to. We make minimum wage without a single benefit, and yet we are the people who keep your mother, your father, your sisters, brothers, uncles and aunts out of nursing homes.”She added: “We aren’t the greedy. We are the needy.”After serving as the local’s treasurer and vice president, she was elected its president in 1999, serving for eight years until her retirement.She also helped voter registration drives in the 1990s directed by Project Vote, which was led by Barack Obama before he was elected an Illinois state senator.The union’s hard work paid off. Wages rose, fitfully, and in 2003, Illinois passed legislation that allowed the local to bargain collectively for its members. That right led home-care workers to negotiate for health insurance and take advantage of a state-funded education and training program that is now named for Mrs. Miller.She is survived by a sister, Johnnie Wells, and a brother, Hayward Ashford.Mr. Kelleher said that during his visit to her last month, Mrs. Miller still sounded like an agitated union leader.“There she was, with stage 4 stomach cancer,” he said, “and as I walk in the door she starts saying, ‘Keith Kelleher, Local 880, I’m fired up! I can’t take it no more!’ That was one of our chants when we were going up against the state or a private company. And she’s still saying it on her deathbed.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Helen Miller, 82, Champion Of Home-Care Workers. 

Opinion | Why Does Trump Want to Debase the Fed? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Why Does Trump Want to Debase the Fed?AdvertisementOpinionSupported byWhy Does Trump Want to Debase the Fed?The tax cut fizzled; send in the clowns!By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistApril 8, 2019ImageFlags flying above the Federal Reserve building in Washington.CreditCreditChris Wattie/ReutersAs far as I know, the Federal Reserve — the world’s most important economic policy institution — doesn’t have an anthem. But if it were to adopt one now, the choice would be obvious: “Send In the Clowns.”You see, the Fed’s governing board currently has two vacancies, and Donald Trump has proposed filling those vacancies with ludicrous hacks. If he succeeds, one of our few remaining havens of serious, nonpartisan policymaking will be on its way toward becoming as corrupt and dysfunctional as the rest of the Trump administration.Stephen Moore and Herman Cain are, of course, completely unqualified — I say “of course” because their lack of qualifications is, paradoxically, a key qualification not just for Trump but for the G.O.P. in general. There are plenty of genuine monetary experts with conservative political leanings, some of them quite partisan. But modern Republicans have shown consistent disdain for such experts, perhaps because of a sense that anyone with real expertise or an independent reputation might occasionally be tempted to take a stand on principle.[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]There’s no risk that either Moore or Cain will ever take such a stand. In fact, what seems to have recommended both men to Trump was their evident willingness to completely reverse their policy views when politically expedient. Both were hard-money men during the Obama years, demanding higher interest rates despite very high unemployment. Both have now taken to berating the Fed for failing to print more money in the face of low unemployment — because that’s what Trump wants.That said, there’s a difference between the two men.I wrote about Moore a couple of weeks ago, noting that he has long been a prominent fixture in the conservative movement; he is, basically, a classic right-wing hack who tries (incompetently) to impersonate an economic expert. Cain, on the other hand, is a spam king whose business model involves making his email list available to direct marketers.Put it this way: In recent years Moore has been out there predicting magical results from tax cuts, putting out fake economic numbers, and giving speeches to FreedomFest. At the same time, Cain has been offering a platform for peddlers of get-rich schemes and cures for erectile dysfunction. So it says something about what Trump wants that he apparently sees the two men as equally valuable allies.What does Trump want? His attempted beclowning of the Fed follows, I’d argue, from the fact that his one major legislative success, the 2017 tax cut — which he predicted would be “rocket fuel” for the economy — has turned out to be a big fizzle, economically and, especially, politically.It’s true that U.S. economic growth got a bump for two quarters last year, and Trumpists are still pretending to believe that we’ll have great growth for a decade. But at this point last year’s growth is looking like a brief and rapidly fading sugar high. Meanwhile, the tax cut remains unpopular, partly because few people perceived personal benefits, partly because voters appear to be less concerned about paying too much than with the sense that the rich — the prime beneficiaries of the Trump cut — are paying too little.Some leaders might see such disappointments as reasons to make a course correction. But this is Trump: When the going gets tough, he blames someone else. Everything would have been great, he insists, if the Fed hadn’t thwarted his plans.There’s a good argument to be made that the Fed misjudged the economy’s strength, that it raised interest rates too fast and that the economy would be doing somewhat better if it hadn’t. In fact, it’s an argument I agree with.But that’s not what Trump is saying. He wants the Fed to act as if we were still in a deep depression; he wants it both to cut rates and to resume the emergency policies it pursued — and he denounced — when we had more than twice as much unemployment as we do today. This would, he insists, turn the economy into the “rocket ship” he originally promised.You don’t have to be a gold bug or even an inflation hawk to see these demands as deeply irresponsible. Indeed, they sound a lot like the “macroeconomic populism” that has repeatedly led to economic disaster in Latin America, with Venezuela the latest example. Running the printing presses to fight a depression, as the Fed did after the financial crisis, is prudent and sensible; running them because you refuse to accept the reality that your policies aren’t delivering an economic miracle is different, and always ends badly.Now, even putting both Moore and Cain on the Fed board probably wouldn’t be enough to push America over the monetary edge. And so far, markets don’t seem worried about the potential for runaway inflation.But maybe investors should be worried, at least a bit, by the spectacle of a president who would rather appoint hacks and debase the Fed’s integrity than admit that his policies aren’t working as promised. U.S. policymaking is looking ever more like that of a corrupt third-world regime. And that is bound, sooner or later, to have consequences.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.
@PaulKrugman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Why Does Trump Want to Debase the Fed?. 

When Age and Distance Don’t Matter - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexWeddingsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperWeddings|When Age and Distance Don’t MatterAdvertisementSupported byMini-VowsWhen Age and Distance Don’t MatterImageBy Vincent M. MallozziFeb. 9, 2019David Kirp and Niko Laine were married Feb. 2 at their San Francisco home. Steven Sugarman, a Universal Life minister and friend of the couple, officiated.Mr. Kirp (right), 74, is a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley. He is also a freelance writer and an author of 15 books, including “The College Dropout Crisis” (Oxford), which is to be published this fall. He was a member of Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential transition team. He graduated from Amherst College.He is the son of the late Ruth Clair Kirp and the late Murray Kirp, who lived in Bay Shore, N.Y.Mr. Kirp’s first marriage ended in divorce.Mr. Laine, 38, is a freelance financial consultant based in Helsinki, Finland. He graduated from Mercuria Business College in Helsinki, and is a candidate for a master’s degree in business law at Aalto University, Finland, also in Helsinki.He is the son of Eija Lehto of Turenki, Finland, and the late Jari Laine, who lived in Helsinki.Mr. Kirp and Mr. Laine met through a dating site in Helsinki in June 2017 on the last day that Mr. Kirp was visiting there with a friend.“We talked and talked and talked,” said Mr. Kirp, who finally decided to meet Mr. Laine in person before leaving Finland.Mr. Laine described their long conversation as “really intelligent.”“I was completely intrigued by David,” he said.So intrigued, in fact, that two months later Mr. Laine boarded a plane for San Francisco to visit Mr. Kirp. They had already spent numerous hours chatting by phone and Skype before Mr. Laine arrived at Mr. Kirp’s home, where he stayed for two weeks.“I got to know him quite well during that time,” Mr. Laine said. “I found him to be a warm, kind and very interesting person who shared many of the things I most enjoy in life, including food, art and travel.”Two weeks later, Mr. Kirp returned the favor, visiting Mr. Laine in Paris, where he was working on his master’s degree as an exchange student at nearby Essec Business School in Cergy-Pontoise, France.“It was 10 days of complete bliss,” Mr. Kirp said.“I’m an intuition guy, and I began to get the feeling right away that this was a special kind of thing we had going on,” he added. “It wasn’t long before Niko became my romantic best friend and confidant, and we formed a warm relationship that ultimately became a very comfortable place for me.”They began a long-distance affair that included getting together in San Francisco, Paris and Helsinki, where Mr. Kirp proposed in July 2018.“We still split our time in those three cities,” Mr. Laine said. “The fact that they are all very liberal places makes life so much easier for the two of us.”But even in those cities, Mr. Kirp said, “people who see this older man walking with his arm around a much younger man often stop and stare; we notice that they are noticing.”When asked if their 36-year age disparity had ever factored into their decision to get married, Mr. Kirp said, “Look, at my age, I wasn’t expecting to get married, but relationships take on a whole bunch of different forms.”“We discussed the fact that in all likelihood, Niko will be a widower at a young age because he is marrying a guy much older,” Mr. Kirp added. “We don’t know what’s in store, but what we do know is that we are two grown-ups at different points in our lives with careers, and that what we have together just works.”Mr. Laine admitted that the great number of years between them “was more of a concern for me at first.”“Moving forward, I had to factor in our age difference analytically,” he said. “I had a choice: Did I want to be fully happy right now and suffer some consequence down the road, or did I want to eventually marry someone a lot younger who I know I wouldn’t have been as happy with?”“I chose to be happy now, and I chose to share my happiness with David.”VINCENT M. MALLOZZIA version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: When Age and Distance Don’t Matter. 

Opinion | This Is Where a Nuclear Exchange Is Most Likely. (It’s Not North Korea.) - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|This Is Where a Nuclear Exchange Is Most Likely. (It’s Not North Korea.)AdvertisementOpinionSupported byThis Is Where a Nuclear Exchange Is Most Likely. (It’s Not North Korea.)Tensions have cooled between India and Pakistan after a terrorist attack, but their nuclear arsenals mean unthinkable consequences are always possible. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.March 7, 2019ImageCreditCreditJames YangThe current focus on North Korea’s growing arsenal obscures the fact that the most likely trigger for a nuclear exchange could be the conflict between India and Pakistan. Long among the world’s most antagonistic neighbors, the two nations clashed again last week before, fortunately, finding the good sense to de-escalate. The latest confrontation, the most serious between the two nations in more than a decade, gave way to more normal pursuits like trade at a border crossing and sporadic cross-border shelling.But this relative calm is not a solution. As long as India and Pakistan refuse to deal with their core dispute — the future of Kashmir — they face unpredictable, possibly terrifying, consequences.The current crisis dates to Feb. 14, when a Kashmiri suicide bomber killed at least 40 Indian paramilitary officers in the deadliest attack in three decades in the divided region that both nations have claimed since partition in 1947. The militant group Jaish-e-Muhammad, which seeks independence for Kashmir or its merger with Pakistan, took responsibility. While it is on America’s list of terrorist organizations and is formally banned in Pakistan, the group has been protected and armed by the Pakistani intelligence service.Last week, India sent warplanes into Pakistan for the first time in five decades. Indian officials said they had struck Jaish-e-Muhammad’s “biggest training camp” and killed a “very large number” of militants, although those claims have been called into doubt. Pakistan counterattacked, leading to a dogfight in which at least one Indian jet was shot down and a pilot was captured by the Pakistanis.The situation could have easily escalated, given that the two countries have fought three wars over 70 years, maintain a near-constant state of military readiness along their border and have little formal government-to-government dialogue.Adding to the volatility, India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, is waging a tough re-election campaign in which he has used anti-Pakistan talk to fuel Hindu nationalism. With Pakistan’s Army most likely shaken by the Indian raid and unwilling to slide into protracted conflict, Prime Minister Imran Khan returned the pilot to India, in what was seen as a good-will gesture, called for talks and promised an investigation into the bombing. Mr. Modi took the opportunity to back off further escalation.The next confrontation might not end so calmly.Pakistan has never seriously cracked down on militant groups that attack India and the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir. In recent days, Pakistani authorities said they detained 44 members of various armed groups, including a brother of Masood Azhar, the head of Jaish-e-Muhammad, and planned to seize assets of militants on the United Nations terrorist list. But Pakistan has rarely followed through on such promises.Without international pressure, a long-term solution is unlikely, and the threat of nuclear war remains.China is a major ally and lender to Pakistan, and if it stopped blocking moves in the United Nations Security Council to add Mr. Azhar to the United Nations terrorist list, it would signal to Pakistan that it has to curb the militant groups.While the Clinton, Bush and Obama administrations aggressively worked to ensure that India-Pakistan confrontations in 1999, 2002 and 2008 did not spiral out of control, the Trump administration has done little but issue a few statements urging restraint. It’s hard to see a role as a mediator for Mr. Trump, who has shifted the United States more firmly against Pakistan and toward India, where he has pursued business interests. But the United States needs to get involved. It could help India strengthen its counterterrorism capabilities to prevent future attacks, and it could encourage India to modify its approach to those opposing its rule in Kashmir, which the United Nations and other groups say involves widespread human rights abuses that simply spawn more militants. And while it’s good when India and Pakistan decide to walk back from the brink, as they seem to be doing now, the United States should be ready to assist if they cannot.A solution to a conflict that touches so many religious and nationalist nerves must ultimately come from within, through talks among India, Pakistan and the people of Kashmir. It’s a long shot, and the protagonists have shown no serious interest, but that’s the reality nonetheless.The two countries have crossed into dangerous territory, with India attacking Pakistan and engaging in aerial duels. The next confrontation, or the one after that, could be far more unthinkable.Mired in Crisis, Pakistan Vows to Move Against Militant GroupsMarch 5, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A28 of the New York edition with the headline: India and Pakistan, Ever on the Edge. 

Opinion | Even Google Can No Longer Hide Its Gender Pay Gap - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Even Google Can No Longer Hide Its Gender Pay GapAdvertisementOpinionSupported byEven Google Can No Longer Hide Its Gender Pay GapA new federal rule will force big companies to report pay scales according to gender and race. By Bryce CovertMs. Covert is a contributing opinion writer.March 7, 2019ImageGoogle employees staged a walkout as a part of a protest over the company’s treatment of women.CreditCreditStefan Rousseau/PA Images, via Getty ImagesOn Monday, Google announced something unusual: After its annual pay equity analysis, it gave most of the raises to adjust for unequal practices to men.The company says that it was about to make changes this year that would have compensated many men less than women in a certain job category, so it headed off that inequity. But the analysis appears to leave out many of the factors that women at the company say have led them to be paid less. The company’s annual reviews only compare people in the same job categories, yet women say the problem is that they are hired into lower-tier and lower-pay positions while men start in higher-level jobs with higher pay brackets.It’s hard to know for sure what’s going on with Google’s wage gap, because the company won’t release all of its data publicly. In prior years it claimed that it had no gap in pay between men and women, while arguing that it shouldn’t have to hand over detailed data to the Department of Labor, which analyzes pay practices at government contractors. Yet in 2016 the Labor Department found that Google had “systemic” disparities, which an official called “quite extreme.”A new rule could help make sense of what’s going on. On Monday, a federal judge cleared the way for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to start requiring companies with 100 or more employees to collect and report their pay scales broken down by gender and race. President Barack Obama proposed the rule in 2016, but when Donald Trump came into the White House, he halted its implementation, saying it imposed too large a burden on businesses and wasn’t likely to offer meaningful enough insights into pay discrimination.The judge ruled that the Trump administration had failed to show that it would have created an actual burden on companies, and she ordered the government to move forward with its implementation. The rule could not only clarify the internal pay practices of companies like Google, but also make some headway in closing the gender wage gap, which remains stubbornly wide.RELATEDMore on pay equityGoogle Finds It’s Underpaying Many Men as It Addresses Wage EquityMarch 4, 2019Opinion | Joanne Lipman: Let’s Expose the Gender Pay GapAug. 13, 2015How a Common Interview Question Hurts WomenMay 1, 2018To comply with the rule, companies will have to analyze their pay data in a uniform way and report differences that emerge based on gender and race. The public will get to see the data only in aggregate. The rule will also be useful to people who sue over discrimination. Women suing Google, for instance, could find themselves armed with more than just the internal analyses of pay data provided by the company.There’s good reason to think this rule could reduce the pay imbalance in the United States, which hasn’t made much progress over the last decade, by shedding light on companies’ pay inequities. Recent research on pay transparency in Denmark found that it reduced the gender wage gap by slowing men’s salary growth. A study looking at a British survey found that making pay practices transparent raised all employees’ wages. And gender wage gaps are far smaller in both unionized workplaces and the public sector, where pay scales are usually available to anyone. In other words, sunlight’s disinfecting qualities are quite powerful for combating unequal pay. Of course, once they disclose pay disparities, companies could choose not to do anything about them. But that would risk the intervention of the E.E.O.C., which is tasked with ensuring companies pay men and women equally. Other countries have gone much further on public disclosure of pay equity gaps. In 2018, Britain began requiring companies with more than 250 employees to report their mean and median gender pay gaps. Australia and Germany recently passed similar mandates. Iceland makes companies undergo yearly audits to prove that they pay men and women equally and to fix any gaps larger than 5 percent. France has also started requiring companies to report how much they pay women compared with men and, if the gaps aren’t fixed within three years, will fine them up to 1 percent of their payroll.We can already see the fruits of these kinds of efforts at transparency. Google, for example, has been forced to cough up the fact that in 2017 its female British employees on average earned 17 percent less per hour than the male ones.It has been illegal for an employer to pay women less than men for the same work in this country for over half a century. And yet women are still fighting unequal pay in the tech sector and beyond. American women who work full time year-round make 20 percent less than men. But before they can do something about it, they have to know what the men around them earn and whether they’re unfairly getting less. Anything that brings this information to light will help in the fight for equal treatment.Bryce Covert is a contributor at The Nation and a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline:
Google’s
Gender Pay Gap. 

Opinion | Why You Love Mayor Pete - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Why You Love Mayor PeteAdvertisementOpinionSupported byWhy You Love Mayor PeteButtigieg detaches progressive policy from the culture war.By David BrooksOpinion ColumnistApril 1, 2019ImagePete Buttigieg, center, at a campaign event in Greenville, S.C., on Saturday.CreditCreditRichard Shiro/Associated PressPete Buttigieg has some kind of magic right now. His campaign bio, “Shortest Way Home,” was the 25th-best-selling book on Amazon when I checked on Monday. That put him just a few dozen places behind Michelle Obama, and thousands or tens of thousands of places ahead of Kamala Harris, Bernie Sanders and the other candidates who have campaign books out now.In a recent Iowa poll he surged to third place. His campaign just announced that it’s raised an impressive $7 million since January. And I can’t tell you how many Democrats in places as diverse as Nebraska, Indiana, New York and Washington have come up to me over the last few weeks raving about the guy. I met a superfan in Frederick, Md., who says that every few hours she calls the campaign to give another $10. This is the biggest star-is-born moment since Lady Gaga started singing “Shallow.”Why are people so in love with the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who almost nobody had heard of until he did a CNN town hall on March 10?It’s important to remember that when Democrats vote next year, they’ll not only be choosing a policy alternative to Donald Trump, they’ll also be making a statement about what kind of country they want America to be.The Trump era has been all about dissolving moral norms and waging vicious attacks. This has been an era of culture war, class warfare and identity politics. It’s been an era in which call-out culture, reality TV melodrama and tribal grandstanding have overshadowed policymaking and the challenges of actually governing.The Buttigieg surge suggests that there are a lot of Democrats who want to say goodbye to all that. They don’t want to fight fire and divisiveness with more fire and divisiveness. They don’t want to fight white identity politics with another kind of identity politics.They are sick of the moral melodrama altogether. They just want a person who is more about governing than virtue-signaling, more about friendliness and basic decency than media circus and rhetorical war.Buttigieg’s secret is that he transcends many of the tensions that run through our society in a way that makes people on all sides feel comfortable.First, he is young and represents the rising generation, but he is also an older person’s idea of what a young person should be. He’d be the first millennial president, but Buttigieg doesn’t fit any of the stereotypes that have been affixed to America’s young people. Young people are supposed to be woke social justice warriors who are disgusted by their elders. Buttigieg is the model young man who made his way impressing his elders — Harvard, Rhodes scholar, McKinsey, the Navy. Young hipsters are supposed to flock to coastal places like Brooklyn and Portland; after college, Buttigieg returned to Indiana. Young people are supposed to be anti-institutional, but Buttigieg is very institutional — his life has been defined by his service to organizations, not his rebellion against them.Second, he is gay and personifies the progress made by the L.G.B.T.Q. movement, but he doesn't do so in a way that feels threatening or transgressive to social conservatives. He has conservative family values; it’s just that his spouse is a husband, not a wife. He speaks comfortably about his faith and says that when he goes to church he prefers a conservative liturgy to anything experimental.Third, he is a localist and a Washington outsider, but he carries no populist resentment and can easily speak the language of the coastal elite.Buttigieg has spent his political career in Indiana, where pols are expected to go to county fairs and eat the catfish fillet and cheesecake on a stick. He wasn’t alive when the Studebaker plant shut down in South Bend, but he has the trauma of Midwestern deindustrialization in his bones. He lives in a house near his mother where the mortgage comes to about $450 a month. On the other hand, he was friends with Mark Zuckerberg at Harvard, earned a first at Oxford and thrived as a corporate consultant.Finally, he’s a progressive on policy issues, but he doesn’t sound like an angry revolutionary. Buttigieg’s policy positions are not all that different from the more identifiable leftist candidates. But he eschews grand ideological conflict. “The whole point of politics is everyday life,” he said in his CNN town hall. His book is mostly about how as mayor he faced problems like snow removal and fixing potholes. His big achievements were renaming city streets, repairing the sewer system and tearing down derelict buildings. He says he’ll do whatever works.I’ve only met Buttigieg once, when we were seated at the same table at a dinner in Detroit a few months ago. He was smart, modest and self-effacing, and I can’t square that impression with his assumption that at 37 he’s qualified to be president of the United States. But maybe that’s Buttigieg — he squares a lot of circles. He deftly detaches progressive policy positions from the culture war. He offers change without Sturm und Drang.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”
@nytdavidbrooks A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: Why You Love Mayor Pete. 

Opinion | Trump’s Circus Maximus - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|Trump’s Circus MaximusAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump’s Circus MaximusBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistMarch 30, 2019ImageWas President Trump doing a “Low-Energy Jeb!” impersonation in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Thursday?CreditCreditTom Brenner for The New York TimesGRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — It was going to be epic, like those Roman triumph celebrations where the generals would ride in on a chariot decorated with gold and ivory, so drunk on power that a slave would have to walk behind, holding a wreath over the general’s head and whispering in his ear, “Remember you are mortal.”Against all odds, Donald Trump had won the day, leaving his enemies stunned. The president had wrested the “No Collusion” headline he dearly craved, and Thursday he would claim his laurels. It was a moment to strut and gloat and curse and insult. From the president’s point of view, which is the only point of view that matters to him, it looked like Watergate in reverse.This was the night for Smugness Maximus.Looking out at the sea of red MAGA hats, a cockier-than-usual Don Jr., who opened for his father, said that this week MAGA stood for “Michael Avenatti Got Arrested.” The bend-the-knee mood was best summed up by the T-shirt of a man with a goatee and neck tattoo: “BITCH I’M THE PRESIDENT!”Michigan was the place to rub it in, because it will always be remembered as a place Hillary forgot. It was strange, though, to have the victorious Vulgarian spewing bile right across the Grand River from the resting place of Gerald Ford, whose museum here offers words associated with Ford that seem quaint by Trump standards: Trustworthy, Respectful, Team Player, Compassion, Steady Leader.Talking to people out on the floor, it was clear that they expected this to be a special “lovefest,” as one put it. They were thrilled at the prospect that Trump would be “the beast unleashed,” as one man said, unburdened and with his shoulders held high and his stride more confident. A rallygoer likened it to cyclists getting to use two pedals of a bicycle when they had been able to use only one.Up in the stands, Juli Arndt waved a “Women for Trump” sign. She had left her husband in charge of their business, Corky’s Beal City Tavern, to make the hour-and-a-half trip here. “I knew there was no collusion. I just had a feeling. I trust him. The only thing he hasn’t done that he promised to do is put Crooked Hillary in jail.”I noted that Jared and Ivanka had also now landed in hot water for using private accounts for official business.“Not to that extent,” she said.And then Trump appeared, running hot at the start. His former campaign advisers Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie had been on Air Force One with him and they were no doubt pumping him up en route, whispering to him, “Remember you are immortal.” At the rally, Trumpsters treated the two swamp creatures like stars, asking them to autograph their merch.But Trump did not seem to be savoring his triumph so much as wallowing in his victimhood, in what he sees as the unfair attempt by “major losers” to treat his presidency as illegitimate. He does not get the irony, that the way he first made his name in national politics was painting Barack Obama as illegitimate.Robert Mueller may not have exonerated the president on obstruction, but the president, of course, exonerated himself, bragging at the rally, “total exoneration, complete vindication.”He denounced his tormentors in the Democratic Party and the media as “sick, sick” and, referring to his raft of critics on MSNBC, crowed that “their ratings dropped through the floor last night.” Because, in Trump’s simplistic mind, that is the worst thing that can happen to anyone.When Trump describes what he sees as the plot against him, it is a mirror image of what his foes see: a fraud perpetrated by corrupt people, “a sinister effort to undermine” the election and a poisoning of the national debate that has left us hurt and divided and “on artificial respirators,” tearing “the fabric of our great democracy.”Trump engaged in his usual weird meandering, saying of his voters: “I always say they came from the valleys. They came from the mountains, they came out of the damn rivers. I don’t know what you were doing in the river, but they came from the cities, they came and they came and they didn’t even know.”He was in such a good mood that he allowed himself a favorite indulgence: knifing a top adviser in the perfect setting. Just as he excluded devout Catholic Sean Spicer from a meeting with the pope in Rome, he humiliated Betsy DeVos in a town where many buildings bear her last name, having “overridden my people” by reversing her decision to cut funding for the Special Olympics.For the last hour of the speech, Trump went flat, simply resorting to golden oldies. (He had already managed to step on his own parade in the dumbest way possible against the recommendation of his top people and Kevin McCarthy when he jumped back into the quicksand of health care.)It’s not clear why, on a night when his aides promised high energy, he seemed to lose altitude. Did he miss having Mueller as a foil? Did he know in his heart that he was guilty of some of those sins? Is he tired of rallies even before the 2020 race gets well underway? Does he know that his “No Collusion” headline will not change the minds of all those Americans who disdain him? Or is he being a sore winner again?Maybe Trump, like America, is just tired of winning. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR13 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump’s Circus Maximus. 

Opinion | An Intrepid Explorer of Mars Falls Silent - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|An Intrepid Explorer of Mars Falls SilentAdvertisementOpinionSupported byAn Intrepid Explorer of Mars Falls SilentHow the jaunty rover Opportunity captured the world’s imagination.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 15, 2019ImageCreditCreditLucy JonesOpportunity, formally known as Mars Exploration Rover B but as Oppy to its many friends and admirers, was pronounced dead on Wednesday after a final round of beamed commands, and a farewell broadcast of Billie Holiday’s rendition of “I’ll Be Seeing You,” failed to elicit a response. Oppy was 5,352 Martian days old, a bit more than 15 Earth years, and had worked tirelessly through its long and productive life, despite bouts of amnesia in its later years, before succumbing to an epic summer dust storm last June.“I learned this morning that we had not heard back,” Thomas Zurbuchen, associate administrator of NASA’s Science Mission Directorate, told a hushed news conference. “It is therefore that I am standing here with a sense of deep appreciation and gratitude that I declare the Opportunity mission as complete.”Scientists who had spent many years working with Oppy hugged one another and wept while the rover’s many friends posted tributes on social media. A friend called StillMe spelled out “Godspeed Oppy” in the binary code the rover spoke, adding, “Yes, I’m crying.” Tanya Harrison, a member of Opportunity’s science team at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, tweeted: Spent the evening at JPL as the last ever commands were sent to the Opportunity rover on #Mars. 💔There was silence. There were tears. There were hugs. There were memories and laughs shared.#ThankYouOppy #GoodnightOppy pic.twitter.com/JYRPtKZ8T5— Dr. Tanya Harrison (@tanyaofmars) February 13, 2019
“Don’t be sad it’s over, be proud it taught us so much,” tweeted Barack Obama.About the size of a golf cart and vaguely resembling a flightless bird with a long neck, six wheels and a spindly claw, Opportunity was a robot version of “The Little Engine That Could,” the storybook locomotive that never stopped trying. Launched on July 7, 2003, it zipped around the red planet way past its anticipated life span of 90 Martian days and its intended range of 1,100 yards. The 28 miles over nearly 15 years that it logged across rock-strewn plains, sandy dunes and deep craters, through dust storms and brutal extremes of temperature, were far more than any other space vehicle had ever traveled on the surface of another planet or moon, a testament to its resilience and to the talents and ingenuity of the scientists, engineers and managers at NASA.Along the way, it changed the way Earthlings see their extraterrestrial neighbor, sending back countless stunning images, including remarkable pictures of “dust devils” of swirling sand; an unexpected meteorite; scores of craters and signs that water had flowed over Mars billions of years ago, possibly nourishing life. At Endeavour Crater, the biggest Oppy explored, it came upon ancient bedrock containing clays formed eons ago in drinkable water. So this was a planet that may have been habitable until volcanic eruptions turned the water acidic and then dried it up altogether.Opportunity was not the first rover on Mars, and not the last. NASA’s Sojourner explored the planet for about three months in 1997, and three weeks before Opportunity arrived, its identical twin, Spirit, landed on the other side of Mars. Spirit was doing a good job until it got stuck in soft sand and went silent in 2010. Another American rover, Curiosity, landed in 2012 and is now exploring a crater once filled with water. Three landings are planned for 2020, by NASA, China and a joint European-Russian group.But Oppy won a special place in the hearts of space buffs by its sheer spunk. Like its sibling, it got stuck in sand, but it managed to rock its way out. It had some problems with its wheels and its arm, but it overcame them. It survived brutal winters by hibernating with its wings turned to the sun. In later years it developed a touch of amnesia in its flash memory, as any aging robot would, but that, too, didn’t slow it down. It just kept humming along: “I think I can, I think I can.”Oppy finally came to a rest on the edge of Endeavour Crater, in a place known as Perseverance Valley. It may be that in its last days it could still hear, just couldn’t answer. So maybe the last message it heard from Earth was Billie Holiday singing this final refrain:I’ll find you in the morning sunAnd when the night is newI’ll be looking at the moonBut I’ll be seeing you.RelatedNASA’s Mars Rover Opportunity Concludes a 15-Year MissionFeb. 13, 2019Photos From the Opportunity Rover’s Mission on MarsFeb. 14, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: An Intrepid Explorer of Mars Falls Silent. 

Opinion | Your Public Lands Are Killing You - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Your Public Lands Are Killing YouAdvertisementOpinionSupported byYour Public Lands Are Killing YouWe are squandering millions of acres of our children’s inheritance and using it to destroy the planet.By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer March 29, 2019ImageSigns on Wyoming Highway 59, north of Douglas.CreditCreditKristina Barker for The New York TimesOut in the way beyond, the open land on the far side of the Mueller report and cable news obsessives, is a vast kingdom now being used to hasten the demise of the planet.You may know this area, more than 500 million acres of empty vales and thick forests, high plains and diamond-cut peaks, as something you saw on a screen saver, or marked as a distant bucket list destination. It’s your American public land endowment, your birthright at citizenship.What you may not know is that while you were sleeping through the white noise from the White House, your public servants were put under the control of the oil and gas industry. They have been busy giving away drilling rights on your land for next to nothing. More precisely — per acre, for even less than the cost of a Bacon McDouble, which of course you should eat only in moderation.And they’re doing this in the face of considerable evidence that the rush into industrial plunder of these lands is a huge source of planet-convulsing carbon emissions.But behold: A history-making lawsuit on behalf of children who will inherit this mess could put an end to the Trump administration plan to drill till we drop. Although the courts have never recognized a constitutional right to a livable environment, the lawsuit, Juliana v. United States, has been given a green light to pursue just that.ImageA rally by Our Children’s Trust outside the Supreme Court in October in support of the plaintiffs in Juliana v. United States.CreditWin McNamee/Getty Images“This is no ordinary lawsuit,” wrote federal judge Ann Aiken of Oregon in allowing the case to proceed. “I have no doubt that the right to a climate system capable of sustaining human life is fundamental to a free and ordered society.”If that judicial statement was a stunner, what happened this month in another case was equally extraordinary. For the first time, a federal judge temporarily halted drilling on federal land because the government did not take into account the climate change impact of that drilling.RelatedMore on public lands.Opinion | Timothy EganThe Last Best Empty Place in AmericaJuly 21, 2017Forget about the unworkable Green New Deal, which Republicans are using as a prop to show how silly both parties are. Cow flatulence! No air travel! The end of “hamberders!” It’s been a gift to right-wing demagogues, looking to further dumb down a Republican base that doesn’t believe anything a wounded earth is trying to tell them.The real action is unfolding now, on federal land. Prior administrations allowed for considerable oil and gas drilling in swaths of the public domain in the West. But President Trump is holding a fire sale for his fellow fossil fools. The amount of federal land offered for drilling is three times what it was under President Barack Obama.It would be one thing if we needed this oil. We don’t. The world is awash in cheap crude. And it would be another if these lands weren’t being used for something that poses an existential threat. They are. Almost 25 percent of American earth-warming emissions originate from industrial action involving public land or offshore leases.The United States is the biggest carbon polluter in history, and now ranks behind only China in greenhouse gas emissions. As well, we’re now the largest crude oil producer in the world. And we’ve become a leading exporter of that oil, just to show how bad of a global citizen we can be.If you force the Trump administration to stop bingeing on public land, you can make an immediate impact on the amount of earth-warming carbon the United States spits into the atmosphere.Such an injunction is what the children represented by a trust in the Juliana lawsuit are trying to do. And it was that sort of injunction, acknowledging the role of drilling on public land in harming us all, that temporarily shut down new leasing on 300,000 acres in Wyoming this month.Another big step is to prevent David Bernhardt, a former oil and gas lobbyist, from becoming interior secretary. A stooge for his former clients, this Trump nominee was the deputy secretary, while the top job was held by a strange man, Ryan Zinke, who paraded around on a horse named Tonto.It was Bernhardt who tried to block release of a federal analysis showing that two widely used pesticides were so toxic that they “jeopardize the continued existence” of more than 1,200 species of birds, fish and other life-forms without lobbyists, as my colleague Eric Lipton reported this week.ImageDavid Bernhardt at a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing on his nomination for interior secretary.CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesYou can see who Bernhardt is working for: It’s not all the living things under the domain of the emperor of the outdoors. Nor is he looking out for the interests of children, who will have to live with the consequences of action taken by adults in service to carbon pollution.About those kids: Senator Mike Lee of Utah recently took to the floor of his chamber to say that the best response to the mounting chaos of epic floods, searing wildfires and other symptoms of a sick earth is to get married and have children.What he didn’t say was that we hold our public land in trust for the Americans of tomorrow. The least we can do is stop using it to imperil their world.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: We Are Squandering Our Children’s Inheritance for Oil. 

Opinion | The House Finally Acts on Yemen - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The House Finally Acts on YemenAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe House Finally Acts on YemenThe Senate should quickly follow suit and end United States complicity in the humanitarian horrors there. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 14, 2019ImageA man on the rubble of a building destroyed in airstrikes carried out by
the Saudi-led coalition in Sana, Yemen, last June.CreditCreditMohammed Hamoud/Getty ImagesCongress has long ignored its constitutional war-making responsibilities, evading difficult questions about military engagement and effectively giving presidents a blank check to decide when and how the military should be involved in hostilities.That the House finally took up that duty on Wednesday and voted to end military support for Saudi Arabia in the catastrophic civil war in Yemen is a measure of growing bipartisan disgust with the Saudi regime and revulsion at the horrors of that war.The Republican-led Senate enacted similar legislation in December, but the measure was blocked in the House, before it passed from Republican to Democratic hands last month.The Senate needs to approve the measure again, confirming its vote in December, to deliver
a stunning rebuke to a president unyielding in his defense of Saudi Arabia, even after Saudi operatives murdered the Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul in October.Despite a cease-fire agreed to in December around the port of Hudaydah, a lifeline for humanitarian aid and site of one of the fiercest battles, Yemeni civilians continue to be killed in the fighting and millions more face a devastating famine.Congress passed the War Powers Resolution over President Richard Nixon’s veto in 1973 because of the way presidential authority had been used to extend the Vietnam War. The measure passed by the House on Wednesday invokes that act because many lawmakers say President Trump exceeded his authority by deploying American forces and weapons into the Yemen conflict without a formal declaration of war. As of the end of 2018, nearly 100 American military personnel were believed to be advising or assisting the coalition war effort, although fewer than 35 are based in Saudi Arabia.Mr. Trump has threatened to veto the bill if it is passed by the Senate, arguing that the support provided to the Saudis has been limited and the congressional resolution would undermine the president’s constitutional powers. An override would be difficult, but congressional action could still pressure the administration to pull back support for the Saudi campaign and bring hope to long-suffering Yemenis that their agony could soon end. The civil war has metastasized since 2015, when Saudi Arabia and its Sunni Arab allies in the Persian Gulf intervened against Houthi rebels, Shiites backed by Iran.As the fighting, and Saudi bombing, intensified, thousands of children have starved to death, thousands more civilians have been killed in the fighting, 14 million are on the brink of famine and more than a million suffer from cholera.Under Saudi Arabia’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who has been
implicated in Mr. Khashoggi’s brutal murder, the coalition has imposed periodic blockades that are intended to penalize the Houthis, but end up harming civilians most of all.Although the Houthis have also been accused of atrocities, the United Nations and human rights groups have mostly blamed the Saudis for the suffering.Since the Obama administration, the United States has provided the Saudis with vital operational, logistical and intelligence support, which the legislation would halt. The bill would also prohibit the resumption of midair refueling of coalition planes, which the Pentagon ended in November.Unfortunately, the measure also includes an amendment that would permit continued intelligence sharing between the United States and the coalition for targeting purposes.And the United States, Britain and France are still selling weapons and parts to Saudi Arabia. Congress should move to end those sales, as well as the provision of crucial maintenance services by American mechanics. The United States has already contributed too much to the slaughter in Yemen.Beyond the alarm over Yemen’s suffering, the legislative pushback is also a response to Mr. Trump’s failure to hold the crown prince, architect of the Yemen war, accountable for Mr. Khashoggi’s killing. Last week, the White House ignored a legally mandated deadline to report whether it believed the C.I.A. conclusion, that the murder was ordered by the prince, who has shown a determination to use the cruelest measures to crush his critics. He and Mr. Trump seem content to have Saudi Arabia be an international pariah.RelatedMore coverage of the Yemen crisis.From Arizona to Yemen: The Journey of an American BombDec. 11, 2018Pope Francis Makes ‘Historic’ Gulf Tour Amid Yemen Crisis and Christian RepressionFeb. 3, 2019Opinion | Nicholas KristofThis Is What Our Yemen Policy Looks LikeDec. 12, 2018The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: The House Finally Acts on Yemen. 

Opinion | Trump’s Kakistocracy Is Also a Hackistocracy - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Trump’s Kakistocracy Is Also a HackistocracyAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump’s Kakistocracy Is Also a HackistocracyThe invasion of hucksters has reached the Federal Reserve.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistMarch 25, 2019Leer en españolImageStephen Moore, President Trump's latest choice for the Federal Reserve Board, is good at being wrong.CreditCreditAndrew Harrer/Bloomberg It’s no secret that Donald Trump has appointed a lot of partisan, unqualified hacks to key policy positions. A few months ago my colleague Gail Collins asked readers to help her select Trump’s worst cabinet member. It was a hard choice, because there were so many qualified applicants.The winner, by the way, was Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary. That looks like an even better call now: Ross’s department has reportedly prepared a report declaring that imports of European cars threaten U.S. national security. This is both ludicrous and dangerous. It gives Trump the right to start a new phase in his trade war that would inflict severe economic damage while alienating our allies — and, as a result, undermine national security.Until recently, however, one agency had seemed immune to the continuing hack invasion: the Federal Reserve, the single institution most crucial to economic policymaking. Trump’s Fed nominees, have, by and large, been sensible, respected economists. But that all changed last week, when Trump said he planned to nominate Stephen Moore for the Fed’s Board of Governors.Moore is manifestly, flamboyantly unqualified for the position. But there’s a story here that goes deeper than Moore, or even Trump; it’s about the whole G.O.P.’s preference for hucksters over experts, even partisan experts.About Moore: It goes almost without saying that he has been wrong about everything. I don’t mean the occasional bad call, which all of us make. I mean a track record that includes predicting that George W. Bush’s policies would produce a magnificent boom, Barack Obama’s policies would lead to runaway inflation, tax cuts in Kansas would produce a “near immediate” boost to the state’s economy, and much more. And, of course, never an acknowledgment of error or reflection on why he got it wrong.[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]Beyond that, Moore has a problem with facts. After printing a Moore op-ed in which all the key numbers were wrong, one editor vowed never to publish the man’s work again. And a blizzard of factual errors is standard practice in his writing and speaking. It’s actually hard to find cases where Moore got a fact right.Yet Moore isn’t some random guy who caught Trump’s eye. He has long been a prominent figure in the conservative movement: a writer for the Wall Street Journal editorial page, chief economist of the Heritage Foundation, a fixture on the right-wing lecture circuit. Why?You might say that the G.O.P. values partisan loyalty above professional competence. But that’s only a partial explanation, because there are plenty of conservative economists with solid professional credentials — and some of them are pretty naked in their partisanship, too. Thus, a who’s who of well-known conservative economists rushed to endorse the Trump administration’s outlandish claims about the benefits from its tax cut, claims they knew full well were unreasonable.Nor has their partisanship been restrained and polite. Many of us are still mourning the death of Alan Krueger, the Princeton economist best known for research — since vindicated by many other studies — showing that increases in the minimum wage don’t usually seem to reduce employment. Well, the Nobel-winning conservative economist James Buchanan denounced those pursuing that line of research as “a bevy of camp-following whores.”So conservatives could, if they wanted, turn for advice to highly partisan economists with at least some idea of what they’re doing. Yet these economists, despite what often seem like pathetic attempts to curry favor with politicians, are routinely passed over for key positions, which go to almost surreally unqualified figures like Moore or Larry Kudlow, the Trump administration’s chief economist.Many people have described the Trump administration as a kakistocracy — rule by the worst — which it is. But it’s also a hackistocracy — rule by the ignorant and incompetent. And in this Trump is just following standard G.O.P. practice.Why do hacks rule on the right? It may simply be that a party of apparatchiks feels uncomfortable with people who have any real expertise or independent reputation, no matter how loyal they may seem. After all, you never know when they might take a stand on principle.In any case, there will eventually be a price to pay. True, there is, wrote Adam Smith, “a great deal of ruin in a nation.” America isn’t just an immensely powerful, wealthy, technologically advanced, peaceful country. We’re also a nation with a long tradition of dedicated public service.Even now — as I can attest from personal interactions — a great majority of those working for the Treasury Department, the State Department and so on are competent, hard-working people trying to do the best they can for their country.But as top jobs systematically go to hacks, there is an inevitable process of corrosion. We’re already seeing a degradation of the way our government responds to things like natural disasters. Well, there will be more and bigger disasters ahead. And the people in charge of dealing with those disasters will be the worst of the worst.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.
@PaulKrugman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump’s Kakistocracy Is Also a Hackistocracy. 

They Learned Early On That Words Matter, and Also Location - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexWeddingsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperWeddings|They Learned Early On That Words Matter, and Also LocationAdvertisementSupported byMini-VowsThey Learned Early On That Words Matter, and Also LocationImageBy Vincent M. MallozziFeb. 16, 2019Genevieve Anne Bentz and Samuel Jordan Lewis are to be married Feb. 17 at Bucks Fishing & Camping, a restaurant in Washington. Vincent Barbuto, a friend of the couple who was granted permission by the Superior Court of the District of Columbia to officiate, is to lead the ceremony.The bride, who is 28 and taking her husband’s name, is a third-year law student at Georgetown. In September, she is to begin working as a law clerk in the financial institutions group in the Washington offices of Davis Polk & Wardell, the New York law firm. She is also a Royal Society of Arts and Salzburg Cutler fellow.The bride’s work, which began in June 2017, with Prof. John Mikhail on the dictionary definition of “emolument” was extensively cited by the judge in the ongoing emolument case against the Trump administration in Maryland federal court.She is a daughter of Dr. Mary Ann Dionne Bentz and Bryan Alan Bentz of Stonington, Conn. The bride’s father owns an engineering firm that bears his name, in Stonington. Her mother is the chief of dermatology at Lawrence & Memorial and Yale New Haven Hospital in New Haven. She is also a member of the board of the CMIC Group, a medical malpractice company in Glastonbury, Conn.The groom, 29, is a lawyer specializing in telecommunications law in the Washington offices of Wilkie Farr & Gallagher, a New York-based law firm. He received a law degree from Georgetown.He is a son of Elise Jordan Hoffmann of Chevy Chase, Md., and Eric Leslie Lewis of Bethesda, Md. The groom is a stepson of Emily Jean Spitzer and Christopher Martin Niemczewksi.The groom’s mother and stepfather are principals at Marshfield Associates, an institutional money manager and mutual fund company in Washington. His father is also a founder and a partner in Lewis Baach Kauffmann Middlemiss, an international law firm based in Washington. The groom’s stepmother retired as the executive director of the National Health Law Program, a Washington-based organization of lawyers seeking to advance access to quality health care for low income and underserved individuals.Ms. Bentz and Mr. Lewis met in October 2011 at a Halloween party held in the Manhattan apartment of a mutual friend. Ms. Bentz was wearing a costume in tribute to the Oxford comma, which had just been struck from the University of Oxford Style Manual. “Yes, I was mourning the death of a comma,” Ms. Bentz said, laughing.The groom was dressed as a hamster. “I’ve always loved small woodland creatures,” Ms. Bentz said, laughing a bit harder.Though Ms. Bentz was not aware that Mr. Lewis was a fellow student at Princeton, he already had her in his sights on campus. “I recognized her from the art history library,” he said. “I thought she was absolutely beautiful.”He finally introduced himself, and they chatted for five hours.“He was handsome, sweet, engaging and had a very wry sense of humor,” Ms. Bentz said.They learned new things about each other, including the fact that each had a grandfather who worked together as chemists at American Cyanamid, a small chemical company in Stamford, Conn.They were just beginning to share a chemistry of their own when Mr. Lewis left Manhattan for Chicago in September 2012 to work on President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign. At about the same time, Ms. Bentz went to Colorado to work at a ski resort. The kept in touch, and two months later, when Ms. Bentz accompanied a friend who was participating in the Chicago Marathon, she and Mr. Lewis had lunch together.“At that point we really liked each other,” she said, “but we were in different places geographically, so getting together was really hard.”In January 2014, Mr. Lewis sent Ms. Bentz an invitation, and a round-trip Amtrak ticket, to visit him in Washington for an official first date. “I went that weekend, and went back again and again, five weekends in a row,” said Ms. Bentz, who was living again in Stonington at that time.On that fifth weekend, she decided to make getting together a whole lot easier.“I just stayed,” she said. “I never left Sam, or Washington for that matter.”After their ceremony, the couple are to hold their reception at Comet Ping Pong, the location of the “Pizzagate” conspiracy and shooting. The couple chose both restaurants as a show of support for the businesses, which are one door from each other on the same street. The groom has been going to both places since he was a child and the staff, which are interchangeable, are family friends.“Every Christmas Eve, members of the staff go over to Sam’s mother’s house to celebrate,” Ms. Bentz said. “They really are like family, which is why it was so important for Sam to take me to both places early on in our relationship, as it was seen as a big step toward our getting married.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST15 of the New York edition with the headline: A Hamster, an Oxford Comma, and Love. 

Opinion | The Biden Paradox, and How to Solve It - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Biden Paradox, and How to Solve ItAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Biden Paradox, and How to Solve ItHe’s the most popular Democrat, but right now he has almost no chance to win the nomination.By Michael TomaskyContributing Opinion WriterMarch 12, 2019ImageJoe Biden’s long record of public service includes problematic episodes that could stop him from
getting his party's nod.CreditCreditWin Mcnamee/Getty ImagesJoe Biden, apparently on the cusp of declaring his third run for the White House, is caught in a paradox that might be without precedent in modern American presidential politics. Nearly everyone thinks he can beat Donald Trump. At the same time, no one thinks he’ll get the chance to do it — that is, notwithstanding the latest polls, which are just measuring name recognition, nearly everyone thinks he can’t win the nomination.How can this be the case? How can the Democrats have a candidate they all agree would stand a very strong chance of recapturing the White House, gaining the power to appoint liberal Supreme Court justices and all the rest, and yet not be hankering to send that candidate into battle?Some of this no doubt reflects on the party. We’re just not at a point in history where Democratic activists are going to grant any sort of automatic advantage to a white male. If anything, the opposite will be the case (except with regard to Bernie Sanders partisans, but they’re not necessarily Democratic activists).This wariness toward white-maledom makes some people nervous because, well, let’s be blunt: With one exception in the form of a person who was an exceedingly rare political talent and who benefited from a world-historic economic meltdown seven weeks before the election, this country has elected only white males to the presidency. The white non-male who was supposed to be a shoo-in last time lost.This has left some people thinking — and not just men, but, in my experience, a number of feminist women — that the Democrats should just submit to this perceived reality and nominate someone who (ahem) “looks the part.”But the bulk of the energy among the party’s activist base is probably in the other direction. I would not say, and I don’t think any Democrat should say, that a woman or a person of color (or both) can’t win the presidency in 2020. An African-American woman almost became the governor of Georgia, and one can certainly argue that the American electorate is somewhat to the left of the Georgia electorate. Donald Trump is unpopular, and may well be more so after the Mueller report and a raft of congressional hearings. Many economists anticipate a recession. Given all these factors, and the likely makeup of the 2020 electorate (less than 70 percent white), it’s not so difficult to imagine a non-white male winning.And yet, over here sits Mr. Biden, still widely considered the Democrat most likely to beat the president, and possibly by a comfortable margin. But because his long record of public service includes some episodes that have worn quite poorly in our era, the nomination may be beyond his grasp. Is there any way for him to break out of this box?Mr. Biden has three problems, which I would rank in this order: first, his handling of the Anita Hill matter during the Clarence Thomas hearings, when he decided not to call other witnesses who could have corroborated Ms. Hill’s testimony; second, some of his positions on race, including opposition to busing and support for the 1994 crime bill, and some comments he made back then about “predators on our streets”; and third, his reputation as a Democrat too fully of his era, too centrist and corporate (not helped by his being from Delaware, the corporation state).Mr. Biden’s first instinct will most likely be to explain and justify. That used to work in politics, a lot of the time. It doesn’t anymore, in the age of social media. Today, self-justification is among the greatest offenses a public figure can commit.Twitter is toxic and awful, and it’s always useful to remember that Twitter is not America. That said, the medium does efficiently reduce matters to their essence. And if Mr. Biden tried to defend his actions around the Thomas hearings — or to use his vice presidency under Barack Obama as cover — he would be savaged on social media, and that would metastasize into the conventional wisdom on him.So regarding Anita Hill, he needs to say he was wrong. And, crucially, he has to make clear exactly what he has learned in the intervening 28 years. That’s the hard part, but it’s what may convince his skeptics that he is a different person now. The same is true of his past position on school desegregation.On crime, he’s probably free to do a bit more contextualizing, explaining how big a problem crime was then. But if that’s the main thing people hear, it will again sound too self-justifying. Far better to say, “That was then, this is now,” tick off a list of initiatives aimed at improving the prospects of young black men and point out all the things he has done over the years along those lines (in a 40-plus-year career, they must exist).Finally, with respect to his centrism, Mr. Biden needs to pull off the trick, which dexterous politicians can do, of showing that he has nudged himself a bit to the left without sounding inauthentic. He might nod here toward young people, acknowledging that if he’d grown up with the capitalism that they did, he’d be mad, too.If Mr. Biden can acknowledge this and convince the doubters that he’s learned from the past, the Biden Paradox could be overcome. But of course, he has to actually believe he was once wrong on these questions, and this we do not know.RelatedOpinion | Jamelle Bouie: The Trouble With BidenMarch 11, 2019Joe Biden’s 2020 Plan Is Almost Complete. Democrats Are Impatient.March 7, 2019Opinion | Maureen Dowd: Uncle Joe’s Family WebFeb. 23, 2019Opinion | David Leonhardt: Run, Joe, RunJan. 13, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Michael Tomasky is a columnist for The Daily Beast, editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas and a contributing opinion writer.
@mtomasky A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: How to Solve the Biden Paradox. 

Snows Smack Seattle, Where Winter Is Supposed to Be About Rain - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexU.S.SubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperU.S.|Snows Smack Seattle, Where Winter Is Supposed to Be About RainAdvertisementSupported bySnows Smack Seattle, Where Winter Is Supposed to Be About RainImageChildren sled on a hilly street in the Phinney Ridge neighborhood of Seattle on Saturday. Seattle is on track for its snowiest February on record.CreditCreditDavid Ryder/Getty ImagesBy Kirk JohnsonFeb. 10, 2019SEATTLE — Sorry, Siri. Turn-by-turn driving directions just won’t suffice in a big Seattle snowstorm.Did you say turn left? No can do. It’s an icy hill, and the prospect of a downward skid, foot mashing the brake pedal, is very real. Left at the next intersection instead? Another vertigo inducer, of which the glacier-carved city has many.People with tickets for “Uncle Vanya” at the ACT Theatre were out of luck, too, as Seattle got its biggest snowfall in a decade this week, and performance venues up and down the Pacific Northwest coast went dark. Justin Timberlake bailed out on his scheduled Tacoma Dome show on Sunday, and Michelle Obama rescheduled an appearance in support of her new book. Hundreds of flights were delayed or canceled on Saturday at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, and the problems continued into Sunday.Snow isn’t unheard-of here in the nation’s upper northwest corner. This isn’t Atlanta or Tallahassee, Fla., where the rare falling flake can send people flocking into the street to shiver and stare up in wonder with their tongues extended. But neither is it Denver or Chicago, where anything short of an all-out blizzard merits little more than a shrug.In Seattle, the muscle memory just isn’t there for big snow — whether in deploying salt spreaders and plows or in getting a snow-day reprieve from an algebra test — so the responses, for better or worse, are sharpened by the novelty.Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington declared a state of emergency, and Seattle’s Emergency Management office urged people to be prepared to lose power if lines go down. Interstate 90 was closed on Sunday morning in both directions east of Seattle because of blowing and drifting snow. Kids and their parents commandeered city streets for sledding, sometimes blocking traffic with homemade signs.Then there’s frozen pizza. Or perhaps more accurately, there isn’t
frozen pizza. The gene for nesting indoors in extreme weather appears to be connected to the gene for pepperoni, so the shelves in the freezer aisle were stripped bare in many stores. Tofu was still widely available.The National Weather Service said that Seattle, less than halfway into the month, has already had its snowiest February since 1949, after 7.9 inches were recorded at the airport on Friday and Saturday. And three more storms, backed up one behind the other on a slippery slope from Canada, are heading toward the region starting on Monday, said Jacob DeFlitch, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service.“Right now, we have two systems coming in later Sunday to early Monday,” Mr. DeFlitch said. “Then we have a system right on the heels of that system that will be late mainly Monday afternoon through early Tuesday morning. It looks like there could then be another system Thursday-Friday.”Pacific Northwest winters are famous for their persistent but temperate gloom, with storm tracks and prevailing winds that usually bring Pacific Ocean clouds and moisture directly east into the Puget Sound region. That familiar pattern — days of rain and drizzle that are short and dark but rarely all that cold — also produces big snows, but farther inland in the Cascade Range, where those storm systems smack into the colder, higher mountain elevations east of Seattle.This year, though, the Pacific storms have veered inland much farther north, in British Columbia, and then have stayed colder over land as they moved down the coast.That has produced a grab-bag of unusual weather. Some areas northwest of Seattle, for example, on the usually rainy Olympic Peninsula, got more than two feet of snow in Friday’s storm. But the Cascade Range, from Washington south into Oregon, has so far seen much less snow than average, with possible repercussions later this year for water supplies and fire danger.Seattle, with high housing prices and a big homeless population, also worries about keeping people warm and safe when frigid weather hits. The city said it would keep a Severe Weather Shelter open near the Space Needle through Feb. 17, and the Human Services Department had partnered with a private operator to open a shelter for families downtown. A 24-hour warming shelter for families with children will be open at least through Monday morning, the city said; about 270 people took overnight refuge at four other locations Friday night, including City Hall and the King County Administration Building.Mr. DeFlitch, the meteorologist, said that with more than 10 inches measured so far, it won’t take much more for this February to break the month’s current record of 13.1 inches.That was set in February 1949, before frozen pizza was available for a supermarket raid. And in those days, hearing a disembodied voice in your car telling you to turn left was something few people would admit to in any weather.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A14 of the New York edition with the headline: Seattle’s Gray Winter Palette Turns White. 

Opinion | How the Left Embraced Elitism - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|How the Left Embraced ElitismAdvertisementOpinionSupported byHow the Left Embraced ElitismThe progressives’ Green New Deal centralizes power.By David BrooksOpinion ColumnistFeb. 11, 2019ImageRepresentative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Ed Markey introducing the Green New Deal on Thursday.CreditCreditPete Marovich for The New York TimesOver the past generation, global capitalism has produced the greatest reduction in human poverty in history. Over the past 10 years, American capitalism has produced 20 million new jobs. The productive dynamism of capitalism is truly a wonder to behold.But economic growth alone is not enough. Growth alone does not translate into economic security for the middle class and the less skilled. Growth alone does nothing to reverse the social decay afflicting communities across America.This reality is transforming the political debate — and shifting everything leftward. Among conservatives there are now a bevy of thinkers who are trying to find ways to use government to reduce inequality, promote work and restore community.For example, in the lead essay of the conservative journal National Affairs, Abby M. McCloskey notes that the family you are born into and the neighborhood you live in have a much stronger influence on your socioeconomic outcome than any other factors. Her essay is an outstanding compendium of proposals designed to strengthen family and neighborhood.Pell grants could be used to pay for vocational and apprenticeship training and not just for college. The federal government could support a voluntary national service program by paying people, once in their lifetime, to work for a year at a local nonprofit. The tax code could be tweaked so that people with no income tax liability could receive a cash credit for making charitable donations.These proposals are activist but humble. It’s not the federal government centrally deciding how to remake your community. It’s giving communities and people the resources to take responsibility and assume power for themselves.As many conservatives have shifted leftward, so have progressives. From Bill Clinton through Barack Obama, Democrats respected market forces but tried to use tax credits and regulations to steer them in more humane ways. Obamacare was an effort to expand and reform private health insurance markets.That Democratic Party is ending. Today, Democrats are much more likely to want government to take direct control. This is the true importance of the Green New Deal, which is becoming the litmus test of progressive seriousness. I don’t know if it is socialism or not socialism — that’s a semantic game — but it would definitely represent the greatest centralization of power in the hands of the Washington elite in our history.The resolution is unabashed about this, celebrating and calling for more “federal government-led mobilizations.” Under the Green New Deal, the government would provide a job to any person who wanted one. The government would oversee the renovation of every building in America. The government would put sector after sector under partial or complete federal control: the energy sector, the transportation system, the farm economy, capital markets, the health care system.The authors liken their plan to the New Deal, but the real parallel is to World War II. It is the state mobilizing as many of society’s resources as possible to wage a war on global warming and other ills. The document is notably coy about how all this would be implemented. Exactly which agency would inspect and oversee the renovation of every building in America? Exactly which agency would hire every worker?But the underlying faith of the Green New Deal is a faith in the guiding wisdom of the political elite. The authors of the Green New Deal assume that technocratic planners can master the movements of 328 million Americans and design a transportation system so that “air travel stops becoming necessary.” (This is from people who couldn’t even organize the successful release of their own background document.)They assume that congressional leaders have the ability to direct what in effect would be gigantic energy firms and gigantic investment houses without giving sweetheart deals to vested interests, without getting corrupted by this newfound power, without letting the whole thing get swallowed up by incompetence. (This is a Congress that can’t pass a budget.)If this were ever put into practice, there would have to be several new Pentagons built to house the hundreds of thousands of new social planners. The elite universities would have to be transformed into technocratic academies in which the children of the rich were trained so they could be dirigistes for the state.The authors of this fantasy are right that we need to do something about global warming and inequality. But simple attempts to realign incentives, like the carbon tax, would be more effective and more realistic than government efforts to reorganize vast industries. In an alienated America, efforts to decentralize power are more effective and realistic than efforts to concentrate it in the Washington elite. The great paradox of progressive populism is that it leads to elitism in its purist form.The impulse to create a highly centralized superstate recurs throughout American history. There were people writing such grand master plans in the 1880s, the 1910s, the 1930s. They never work out. As Richard Weaver once put it, the problem with the next generation is that it hasn’t read the minutes of the last meeting.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”
@nytdavidbrooks A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: How the Left Embraced Elitism. 

Opinion | Why Ralph Northam Should Not Resign - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Why Ralph Northam Should Not ResignAdvertisementOpinionSupported byWhy Ralph Northam Should Not ResignShould we judge people only by their most shameful moments?By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistFeb. 8, 2019ImageGov. Ralph Northam of Virginia with his wife, Pam Northam, speaking to reporters last week.CreditCreditParker Michels-Boyce for The New York TimesIt’s probably for the best that Ralph Northam seems determined not to resign as governor of Virginia. He may have done something ugly and dumb many years ago, when he was a young man and prevailing notions of socially permissible behavior were uglier and dumber than they are today. In the face of a political and reputational disaster he has stumbled badly in explaining himself. If he weathers the scandal, it will mainly be because all of his potential successors have grave compromises of their own.In the 35 years between those two points he has, by all appearances, lived an upstanding life without a hint of racial bias. If we are going to embrace a politics where that’s not enough to save a sitting governor accused of no crime, we’re headed toward a dark place.I write this as someone who isn’t a Democrat and doesn’t share many of Northam’s views. Nor do I think he covered himself in glory when he accused his Republican opponent, Ed Gillespie, of “racist rhetoric” during the 2017 gubernatorial race, while an advocacy group allied to his campaign ran an ad that made out Gillespie supporters to be homicidal bigots intent on harming minority kids. What goes around comes around, and the temptation for schadenfreude is great.Then again, each of us might want to perform an internal audit before we join the cast-the-first-stone coalition.Ever told — or laughed at — a bigoted joke? I have, and I cringe today at what I once found funny. Ever used one of the more common ethnic or sexist slurs — “gypped,” for instance, or “bitch” — or dropped the f-word as it commonly refers to gay people? I’ve been guilty of this too, to my shame. Have ugly generalizations or snap judgments based on ethnic stereotypes perambulated through your mind, even if they didn’t fall out of your mouth? Guilty again.I admit to all of this not as a form of moral — or immoral — exhibitionism, but because I think it’s true of the overwhelming majority of people irrespective of their race or gender. (If you don’t agree, audit yourself twice.) Few of us are proud of these lapses. Many of us are trying to be considerably more mindful about them. But most of us don’t rip ourselves to pieces over them, either.That’s because we believe that our worst moments and dumbest utterances shouldn’t define us. That our youthful behavior is more of a reflection of what is around us than a representation of what’s inside. That we deserve to be judged by the decency of our intentions and the totality of our deeds. That we are entitled to a presumption of innocence, a measure of forgiveness, a sense for our times, and multiple opportunities for redemption.We also believe in some version of what in Europe is called the right to be forgotten, based on a 2014 legal ruling against Google that your past sins, if they are no longer relevant to your present, shouldn’t haunt you forever — at least not digitally. That right doesn’t exist in the United States, and it wouldn’t apply anyway to a public figure such as Northam.But how about a corollary to the right: A reasonable expectation of receding relevance, at least for non-criminal acts?Should Jesse Jackson’s entire life come down to the anti-Semitic words “Hymietown,” uttered by him in 1984 (and comically immortalized by Eddie Murphy)? Should Prince Harry forever be remembered as the royal who dressed as a Nazi? What about Joy Reid’s virulently homophobic blog posts, or Joe Biden’s racially condescending description of Barack Obama as “the first mainstream African-American who is articulate and bright and clean”?The list goes on. It will get considerably longer as more people continue to commit their dumbest thoughts to Twitter and their most embarrassing selfies to Instagram.Maybe at some point the sheer abundance of embarrassing material will render us insensible to what’s truly unforgivable in the past behavior of public figures. Or maybe we’ll just stumble along, calling for someone’s head merely because we happened upon his frozen image at his worst and immediately forgot the rest of his life. For those not thus caught, it won’t be because they are innocent, but because they are lucky.As I said, this is taking us to a dark place. It is hard enough for ordinary, decent people, aware of their shortcomings and capable of shame, to contemplate a career in politics; why would they ever do so if the statute of limitations on past indiscretions never expires? And if they won’t run, aren’t they just ceding the field to those with no shame?Ralph Northam needs to clear up just who’s in that photo, so Virginians won’t think he’s lying. And he has an opportunity to speak powerfully about the legacy of a casual racism that tainted his generation of Virginians, and about the need for repentance and redemption. The best way for him to do so is as governor.RelatedVirginia Lieutenant Governor Faces Eroding Support From Democrats After New Accuser SpeaksFeb. 8, 2019Virginia’s Racist History Clashes With New South ImageFeb. 8, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.
@BretStephensNYT • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Realism and
Repentance In Virginia. 

Opinion | It’s Great That We Celebrate Black History Month in Totally Normal Ways - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|It’s Great That We Celebrate Black History Month in Totally Normal WaysAdvertisementOpinionSupported byIt’s Great That We Celebrate Black History Month in Totally Normal WaysLike revisiting yearbook pages of students in blackface. By Kashana CauleyMs. Cauley is a writer. Feb. 9, 2019ImageCreditCreditDaniel FishelBlack History Month is the shortest month of the year. It’s usually only 28 days long! This gives stubborn people 337 days to pretend black history doesn’t exist, thanks to what’s commonly known as the one-twelfths compromise.Black History Month always felt like an obligatory celebration. But this year people are really leaning in.Take Ralph Northam, the governor of Virginia, who recently revisited one of the darker parts of black history: blackface. Invented in the 1830s by stage performers who didn’t like black people, blackface, Mr. Northam taught us, was reinvented in the 1980s by Virginia medical students who also didn’t like black people.Usually people dress up as Michael Jackson by putting on a glove, jacket or wig. But Mr. Northam method-acted his way into the role of a white person doing a bad imitation of a black person by painting his face with shoe polish, when he could have waited three years and used bronzer.Mr. Northam wasn’t alone among Virginia officials in his past application of blackface. The state’s attorney general, Mark Herring, wore blackface to a party in the 1980s in order to not look anything like the rapper Kurtis Blow. The Senate majority leader, Tommy Norment, oversaw the publication of the 1968 Virginia Military Institute yearbook, which is full of blackface and racial slurs. Racism must have been a very popular major there.Outside Virginia, Adidas chose to celebrate black history by introducing an all-white shoe called the “Celebrating Black Culture” Ultraboost Uncaged. After lots of people objected, Adidas pulled the shoe, maybe because it lacked melanin. The people who invented an all-white shoe to celebrate Black History Month must make waffles on National Pancake Day and wait until Arbor Day to cut down trees.But Gucci refused to let Adidas take all the heat for bad Black History Month fashion. It introduced and then quickly pulled a balaclava-inspired knit top after it was criticized for looking just like blackface. Gucci just had to go down in history for inventing the what-if-Sambo-needed-to-rob-a-bank look.Twelve years ago, Barack Obama opened his first presidential campaign during Black History Month. And on Feb. 1, Senator Cory Booker announced his own run for president, which means we have to secretly move Black History Month to March next year so Omarosa Manigault Newman can’t do the same thing.Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the most festive of our government agencies, kicked off its 2019 Black History Month party by arresting the Atlanta rapper 21 Savage, saying he was in the country illegally. The arrest happened days after he rapped about the still contaminated water in Flint, Mich., on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,” which must be a total coincidence.According to ICE’s records, 21 Savage was born in Britain and overstayed his visa when he was around 13. This is all very strange, because as everyone knows, the first thing you do when you turn 13 is find your parents and say, “Guys, I think we overstayed our visa.” Thirteen-year-olds are obsessed with only three things: whom they’ve got a crush on, who’s wearing the coolest sneakers at school and figuring out whether their citizenship status means they’ll be able to legally vote in five years.The actor Liam Neeson is really in the spirit. At the beginning of an interview, it seemed as if he was just promoting his latest movie. He must have remembered that the movie was opening during Black History Month and decided it was the most appropriate time of year to mention that time of his life when he went hunting for black people to kill.But the cruelest thing about Black History Month, other than its four-week limit, is that it forecloses the possibility of Black Futures Month — 30 or even 31 whole days when black people could celebrate by living anywhere, failing upward and cheerfully waving hello to cops who don’t see color.Many black people celebrate black history all year long, but everyone else has to pack all those Harriet Tubman-themed parties they always throw into this fixed 28-day period.Celebrate hard, because everyone knows it’s illegal to honor the history of the people who built the White House, the tobacco and cotton industries, and the railroads — and made most of the last 20 years’ pop hits — at any other point in the year.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Kashana Cauley (@kashanacauley) is a television and freelance writer and a contributing opinion writer.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Normal Way to Celebrate Black History Month. 

Two 12-Year-Olds Drew Swastikas on a Playground. Is That a Hate Crime? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexNew YorkSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperNew York|Two 12-Year-Olds Drew Swastikas on a Playground. Is That a Hate Crime?AdvertisementSupported byBig CityTwo 12-Year-Olds Drew Swastikas on a Playground. Is That a Hate Crime?ImagePolice stand outside the Union Temple of Brooklyn after finding anti-Semitic graffiti there in 2018.CreditCreditJohn Taggart for The New York TimesBy Ginia BellafanteMarch 7, 2019[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]At some point during the winter break last month, someone covered the playground of a public school in the Rego Park section of Queens with swastikas and other anti-Semitic sentiments. Either poor spellers or unfamiliar with the exact phrasing of the Nazi salute, whoever was responsible inscribed the words “Hail Hiter” on the ground in chalk.Several days later, two boys were arrested and charged with aggravated harassment. They came from the neighborhood, one that has long been predominantly white and Jewish but grown more diverse in recent years with an influx of Asian immigrants.After the initial arrest, the Police Department’s chief of detectives, Dermot Shea, quickly took to Twitter to commend the “great job” accomplished by his colleagues in the hate-crimes unit he oversees and to say that “no matter the face of hate,” New York will exhibit “ZERO tolerance” for it.In this case the face of hate was the face of two children of color — one black, the other Asian — who were 12 years old.The incident occurred within the context of rising anti-Semitic crimes in the city and around the country, which is surely why law enforcement felt compelled to advertise such a negligible victory in the war against prejudice.There have already been close to 40 such cases in New York this year, a nearly twofold increase over the same period last year. Neither the police department nor community leaders in the affected neighborhoods have determined the reason for the upsurge. Surely the bigotry that has been making more frequent appearances on the American stage since the Trump years is partly to blame.Whatever the cause, it seems fairly clear that arresting 12-year-olds, especially at a time when criminal justice reform has concentrated on diverting young minorities from the system, cannot be considered a solution. There were many other forms a meaningful consequence could have taken.When I spoke with local politicians and heads of Jewish groups around the city, none thought the boys should have been taken in. (They were arraigned in family court and remanded to the custody of their families until further proceedings.)“Do you remember the song from ‘South Pacific,’ ‘you have to be taught to hate?’” asked Toby Ann Stavisky, a state senator representing the relevant district in Queens. “These children were taught to hate, and I’d be very interested to learn where they learned to hate.”Or perhaps we might also wonder if and where they learned that it is perfectly fine to express a mischievous, rebellious or playful side through the use of such cruel and divisive imagery. This generation of children has grown up with constant screen time, inundated with an endless stream of images that eventually renders many of those visual signifiers meaningless, where Nazi symbolism is just processed as more cartoonish provocation.Just this week during an assembly at Sidwell Friends, the progressive Quaker school in Washington from which Chelsea Clinton and Malia Obama graduated, a student participating in a trivia contest flashed a user name consisting of two swastikas onto a screen visible to the whole auditorium. It was not the first time that swastikas have shown up at the school in recent months.And in Orange County, Calif., a group of high-school students came under fire for building a swastika out of red, plastic beer cups during a drinking game at a party. Were they bilious members of the alt-right?When one participant apologized on social media, she said that she considered what she and her friends had done as “a joke” and “not a big deal,” until photos of the incident went viral and they realized the seriousness of their antics.The contemporary school environment emphasizes diversity and inclusion to a point unprecedented in history. Children are put in restorative circles and taught to love and respect one another, to make up and never to antagonize, tease, bully or invalidate. But do these conceptualizations stand up to the corrective lessons of history?New York is one of a number of states in which Holocaust education is mandated, but the general shift toward a greater focus on science, technology and mathematics and away from the humanities, happening across the education system and around the country, has pushed certain subjects and ideas dangerously into the rearview.Last year a study conducted by the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, for example, interviewed 1,350 American adults and found that 66 percent of millennial respondents could not identify Auschwitz as a concentration camp.Even if the two boys arrested in Queens are guilty, we may never know whether they understood the weight of their actions, or whether what they were doing was an act born of loathing or stupidity. We do know that the school where the defacements occurred will conduct a read-aloud of “A Picture Book of Anne Frank,” and have students create stenciled murals “around positive messages about diversity and inclusiveness, including around religion,” according to the city’s Department of Education.In big cities where neighborhood demographics are so often changing and gentrification is often compelling those changes, a truly holistic approach to preventing acts of racial and ethnic bias would involve whole communities — children and their parents — coming together to learn about one another’s cultures, habits, histories, tastes, ambitions, doctrines, similarities. The process would be proactive rather than responsive.The police would keep from reflexively criminalizing ignorance. Officers would do more than hand out fliers and teach communities how to report hate crimes, which is where New York City’s police department places much of its emphasis. It would look at tensions — the broken windows between different groups, so to speak — and try to repair them.Email bigcity@nytimes.com. Follow Ginia Bellafante on Twitter: @GiniaNYT A version of this article appears in print on , on Page MB3 of the New York edition with the headline: Learning, and Unlearning, How to Hate. 

Regulators Move to Ease Post-Crisis Oversight of Wall Street - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBusinessSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBusiness|Regulators Move to Ease Post-Crisis Oversight of Wall StreetAdvertisementSupported byRegulators Move to Ease Post-Crisis Oversight of Wall StreetImageThe Federal Reserve said that it would no longer give banks a passing or failing grade on a portion of the annual stress tests used to ensure a bank had sufficient resources to lend during an economic downturn.CreditCreditKevin Lamarque/ReutersBy Alan Rappeport and Emily FlitterMarch 6, 2019WASHINGTON — Federal regulators moved on Wednesday to ease oversight of the country’s largest banks and other financial firms, continuing a push by the Trump administration to reverse rules that were put in place following the 2008 financial crisis.The Federal Reserve said it would adjust the structure of its annual “stress tests,” which measure the ability of leading banks to withstand a potential economic or financial storm. The changes are likely to make it easier for banks to get regulatory approval to pay higher dividends or buy back their own shares.Separately, a federal oversight panel announced that it planned to no longer designate big, non-bank financial institutions — insurers, asset managers and the like — as “systemically important.” The classification subjected such firms to more intrusive government regulation.Taken together, the announcements on Wednesday represented a big win for the financial industry, which has been arguing since the Obama administration that a flurry of regulations imposed following the financial crisis were onerous and made it harder for banks to make loans and support economic growth. Bank executives also argue that because the industry is much financially stronger than it was a decade ago,many recent regulations are now unnecessary.“Today’s actions reflect the stability of the financial system and the Fed’s growing experience with stress testing,” said Jeff Sigmund, a spokesman for the American Bankers Association, which represents the nation’s largest banks.Critics, however, argued that the relaxation of the rules, while financially beneficial to bank shareholders and executives, will lead to a less safe, less transparent financial system that is more vulnerable to a repeat of last decade’s devastating crisis.“It’s like if we all had to go to gym class and we all had to do the same things, now they’re saying half of you don’t even have to go, and the other half that have to go can do something easier,” said Christopher Wolfe, a managing director at Fitch Ratings, which evaluates the creditworthiness of big companies. “It’s just another data point that reinforces the view that there’s been a regulatory easing.”The Trump administration has said that deregulation is a top priority, along with tax cuts and overhauling trade agreements, in its efforts to accelerate economic growth.Soon after taking office, President Trump directed the Treasury Department to produce a series of reports with recommendations for regulatory changes, including watering down the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and the Volcker Rule, which barred banks from making trades with their own money.In recent months, Fed officials have signaled growing interest in reassessing and lightening the regulatory burdens faced by big banks.Jerome H. Powell, the Fed chairman, said during his Senate confirmation hearings that regulations on Wall Street banks were “tough enough” and suggested an appetite for streamlining post-crisis rules. Late last year, Randal K. Quarles, the Fed’s vice chairman for supervision, called for a more tailored approach to regulating financial institutions and suggested that the Fed might loosen rules governing the safety of their balance sheets.The move on Wednesday by the Financial Stability Oversight Council to no longer treat non-banks as systemically important is largely symbolic.Only four financial institutions, including American International Group and MetLife, previously had that “too big to fail” designation. All of them argued successfully for the labels to be removed. Prudential Financial was the final firm to escape from the tougher regulation, after the oversight council concluded last fall that it no longer represented a threat to financial stability.Going forward, the oversight panel said it would introduce a new system for identifying activities and products that could pose broad risks. The council said it would only designate a firm as “systemically important” if there was no other way to curb the risk it poses to the financial system by addressing its activities.“Today’s proposal would make significant improvements to how the council identifies, assesses, and responds to potential risks to U.S. financial stability,” Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said in a statement.The bigger change is the Fed’s adjustments to how it conducts its stress tests of 11 of the biggest banks that received government bailouts in 2008.The Fed said on Wednesday that it would end its practice of awarding “pass” or “fail” grades to banks on a portion of the stress tests that measured the capacity of banks to keep lending during a financial crisis or economic downturn. This so-called qualitative section of the test also measured the strength of their risk management and anti-money laundering systems.The stress tests will still have a pass/fail component when it comes to gauging whether they have enough capital to keep functioning properly during a simulated financial emergency.Bank executives have been exasperated by the stress tests, complaining that the qualitative section in particular relies on regulators’ subjective judgment.The Fed’s planned changes are “an attempt to be sensitive to how time-consuming and resource-oriented these regulatory testing processes are,” said Evan Stewart, a partner at the law firm Cohen & Gresser.The stress tests have tripped up a number of big banks. The Fed in 2014 shot down Citigroup’s plans to return money to shareholders after it failed the qualitative section. The following year, Deutsche Bank and the Spanish bank Santander failed, while Bank of America barely eked out a passing grade.The end of the pass/fail grades “reduces transparency and deprives the public of the ability to hold the banks and regulators accountable,” said Dennis Kelleher, president of Better Markets, a financial industry watchdog group. “The markets are not going to have the full picture.”Alan Rappeport reported from Washington, and Emily Flitter from New York. Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting from New York. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Regulators
Ease Checks
On Big Banks. 

How the N.Y. Public Library Fills Its Shelves (and Why Some Books Don’t Make the Cut) - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexNew YorkSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperNew York|How the N.Y. Public Library Fills Its Shelves (and Why Some Books Don’t Make the Cut)AdvertisementSupported byHow the N.Y. Public Library Fills Its Shelves (and Why Some Books Don’t Make the Cut)Every book has to earn its spot in one of the world’s leading public library collections. Here’s what it takes. ImageWorkers in a facility in Long Island City, Queens, placed books on a conveyor belt to sort out what branch of the New York Public Library they will be sent to.CreditCreditChang W. Lee/The New York TimesBy Winnie HuMarch 2, 2019[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The New York Public Library has one of the largest public collections in the world. But, unlike Amazon, it does not have seemingly infinite storage. Every book must earn its place on crowded shelves. Nothing gets there by accident. With millions of books to choose from, the library often gets asked how a book gets on the shelves. Who makes the decision?Every book is handpicked by a seasoned corps of 16 selectors and helpers who are the gatekeepers to the library’s circulating collection of nearly 5 million books, 1.7 million e-books and 177,000 audiobooks. These selectors have, at minimum, a master’s degree in library science and a love of reading. They scour thousands of titles so borrowers don’t have to. From inside a squat, brick building in Long Island City, Queens, they are “fighting for good books,” said Michael Santangelo, the deputy director of collection management. ImageSelectors at New Library Services Center of the New York Public Library decide what gets on the bookshelves.CreditChang W. Lee/The New York TimesWhat gets a book in?The selectors do not read every book they pick. There is simply not enough time. Besides, it is about more than just what they like to read when they are picking for the entire city — last year they added more than 476,000 books, 75,000 e-books and 18,000 audiobooks. Every title and author is carefully researched. The goal is to create a well-rounded collection with a wide range of voices and viewpoints. They want to give everyone an excuse to pick up a book at the 88 neighborhood branches in Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island (Brooklyn and Queens have separate library systems).Famous author or best-selling seriesBig names like James Patterson, John Grisham, Danielle Steel, Nora Roberts and Jodi Picoult have nothing to worry about. Their latest books are snapped up, sight unseen, months before they are actually released so they are waiting on the shelves. Ditto for the latest installment of popular youth series like “Diary of a Wimpy Kid” by Jeff Kinney. The library’s top five orders last year were all familiar names: “Becoming” by Michelle Obama (2,174 copies); “Fire and Fury” by Michael Wolff (1,395 copies); “Crazy Rich Asians” by Kevin Kwan (846 copies); “The Poet X” by Elizabeth Acevedo (604 copies); and “Sharp Objects” by Gillian Flynn (495 copies).Major publisherEven first-time or unknown authors get noticed when backed by major publishing houses, including Penguin Random House, Simon & Schuster, Macmillan Publishers, Hachette Book Group and HarperCollins Publishers. The selectors often try to have at least one copy of a new release in the library catalog in case it takes off. But self-published authors are not entirely shut out (see below).ImageDecisions about what books end up on library shelves are made at the New Library Services Center in Long Island City. CreditChang W. Lee/The New York TimesReviews and buzzNothing beats good reviews, of course, but even bad reviews do not rule out books since the selectors make their own calls. It also helps if an author has a loyal fan base, or if the book has been in the news, talked up on social media or turned into a splashy movie. The “Hate U Give” by Angie Thomas created such a stir before it was released that the library preordered 50 copies, and then another 50. “I thought it was going to be huge,” said Karen Ginman, 41, who selects youth books. Now the library has 400 copies, all of which were checked out the other day. For Ms. Thomas’s new book, “On the Come Up,’’ Ms. Ginman preordered 120 copies. While breakout successes are the exception, everything helps. So keep those five-star Amazon reviews coming.Popular interestPolitics and dieting regimens — keto, Paleo and vegan — get a close look from Wayne Roylance, 58, a selector who reviews more than 4,000 adult titles a month. Of those, he typically picks about 1,500 for the shelves. Recipe books for the Instant Pot, a pressure cooker with a cult following, have been a hit in the past year. Test-prep books, and do-it-yourself and craft books are also a shelf staple.ImageHarold Goodwin, a collection processing assistant, helped sort books that will be part of the collection.CreditChang W. Lee/The New York TimesTimeless classicsJust as wardrobes have to be refreshed, so do the classics that find new generations of readers or are rediscovered by book lovers. Well-thumbed copies are retired and new editions added. “The Great Gatsby,” “To Kill A Mockingbird,” “The Cat in the Hat,” “The Very Hungry Caterpillar,” and more recently, “Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone” are always in style.Special requestsA little-known way to get onto the shelves is through the local librarian. A self-published book about the history of the Yorkville neighborhood on the Upper East Side of Manhattan was ordered after residents asked for it. In other branches, immigrants have requested books in their native languages (the library orders books in 22 languages). Students have asked for books on their summer reading lists. The library, with 2 million cardholders, receives such requests every day. Every one gets considered. If there is enough money in the budget and the book adds to the collection, the selectors oblige. So if there’s something you want, head to the nearest branch or sign up online. ImageCreditChang W. Lee/The New York TimesWhat does not get a book in? Emails from authors asking when the library is getting their books.Free copies sent by authors and publishers. Many end up in the giveaway pile.Celebrity endorsements. Knowing a selector, or knowing someone who does, to put in a good word.If a book is hard to share, like personalized books with blank areas where readers write in their experiences. Being a safety hazard. For example, children’s books with flaps or other pieces that can be torn off, becoming a choking hazard.Libraries in New York and Seattle Area Staging a Battle of the SortersNov. 6, 2015Winnie Hu is a reporter on the Metro desk, focusing on transportation and infrastructure stories. She has also covered education, politics in City Hall and Albany, and the Bronx and upstate New York since joining the Times in 1999.
@WinnHu A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Stocking the Stacks at the New York Public Library. 

Opinion | After Cohen, Republicans Are Now Trump’s Fixers - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|After Cohen, Republicans Are Now Trump’s FixersAdvertisementOpinionSupported byAfter Cohen, Republicans Are Now Trump’s FixersG.O.P. lawmakers who started by making excuses for the president’s most repulsive personal traits have now moved on to bedrock principles. They are headed for a reckoning.By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer March 1, 2019ImageRepresentative Jim Jordan led the Republicans in questioning Michael Cohen during the House Oversight and Reform Committee hearing.CreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesThe character sketch of Donald Trump by the keeper of his secrets was no surprise to anyone who has given a passing glance at the hulk of malevolence in the Oval Office. He cheats. He defrauds. He lies by way of respiration.He thinks his son is an idiot, and that only suckers served in Vietnam. He believes blacks are incapable of governing. He acts like a gangster. He stiffs contractors and pays off porn stars. We knew all of that. Getting it under oath from a man who was once executive vice president and special counsel to Trump just gave historians a formality for the obvious.But if Michael D. Cohen’s description of a president who morphed into “the worst version of himself” was not news, certainly the way Republicans took the baton from the ex-loyalist was. They have now become Trump’s fixers, doing his dirty work, issuing threats and ditching long-held principles like so many empty beer bottles thrown from a car.Cohen’s portrayal of the fraud in the White House, and the details of a Trump Organization run like a criminal enterprise, are not disqualifying to Republicans. Just the opposite. Trump is a racist, a con, a cheat, in Cohen’s words — but those are among the reasons people voted for him. Proving it only strengthens his standing with a large sector of the electorate and many members of Congress.When Cohen described how Trump would fail to pay people who’d done work for him, or weaseled his way out of his share of taxes, or inflated his assets for what sounds like insurance and bank fraud — well, those are marks of a good businessman who knows how to game the system.And when Cohen recounted Trump’s belief that he couldn’t name a country run by a black that wasn’t a “shithole,” he was also trashing the United States under President Barack Obama. But it’s an insult that has found a home in right-wing media.“Every day, most of us knew we were coming in and we were going to lie for him,” Cohen said of a typical shift at Trump Tower. Professional prevarication on behalf of Trump “was normalized,” he said. “And no one around him questioned it. In fairness, no one around him today questions it, either.”The hearing before the House committee proved his point. Did one Republican stand up and decry Cohen’s litany of presidential lies? They blasted Cohen the liar, but not the man he lied for. Did one Republican decry the $35,000 check — proof, as Cohen said, that “The president of the United States thus wrote a personal check for the payment of hush money as part of a criminal scheme to violate campaign finance laws”?It’s been clear, ever since the last of the never-Trumpers were rooted out of the party, that the G.O.P. would be an extension of the grime and grift of Trump’s personal brand. But now the enablers are willing to do what Cohen said he once did for Trump — take a bullet for him.Among Cohen’s duties as Trump fixer was to threaten people; he did this maybe 500 times, by his recounting. That job has been taken over by Republican elected officials like Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida. He threatened Cohen on the eve of his testimony, mentioning his family in an ominous tweet.Initially, Gaetz compared witness intimidation to the “marketplace of ideas.” Sure. In the same way that pushing someone in a wheelchair down a flight of stairs is like a sled ride. Gaetz has taken his tweet back, but his crude attempt at thuggery stands out for how loathsome his party has become.The creepy criminal world that surrounds Trump is not off-putting to many Republicans. It was R. Alexander Acosta who helped to negotiate the deal that gave a ridiculously low sentence to Trump’s billionaire buddy Jeffrey E. Epstein, accused of trafficking children for sex. Acosta is now Trump’s labor secretary, approved by the Republican Senate.Trump had called Epstein, who pled guilty to soliciting prostitution, “a terrific guy,” adding that, “It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the young side.” This is disgusting.Republicans who started down this road by making excuses for Trump’s most repulsive personal traits have moved on to bedrock principles. The party of deficit hawks didn’t blink at the trillion-dollar hole in the budget that came with the tax cut, so long as it gave Trump a “win.” They were fine with a president who sided with Vladimir Putin in a traitorous exchange in Helsinki. And the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who has fashioned himself as an institutional guardian of the Constitution, threw that document in a dumpster after he backed Trump’s brazen violation of the separation of powers.They are headed for a reckoning. In years to come, people will ask, “What did we do to make sure our democracy is intact?” as Representative Elijah Cummings, the committee chairman, put it. For Trump’s new fixers, Cohen gave them an answer: “I did the same thing you’re doing now.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Correction: March 1, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated the size of the budget deficit that accompanied the tax cut. It was in the trillions of dollars, not billions. It also described the House panel in the Michael Cohen hearing incorrectly. The House Oversight Committee is a standing committee, not a select one.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A18 of the New York edition with the headline: After Cohen, Republicans Are Now Trump’s Fixers. 

Opinion | Not All Medicare Cuts Are Bad - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Not All Medicare Cuts Are BadAdvertisementOpinionSupported byNot All Medicare Cuts Are BadDemocrats are engaged in indiscriminate attacks on President Trump’s 2020 budget proposal. They are ignoring some worthy ideas.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.March 25, 2019Image CreditCreditLewis ScottSenate Democrats, including several of the party’s presidential candidates, have savaged President Trump for proposing to reduce Medicare spending by several hundred billion dollars over the next decade. Senator Kamala Harris of California said the proposed changes in Medicare “would hurt our seniors.” Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts tweeted, “The Trump administration wants to cut hundreds of billions of dollars from the #Medicare budget, all while giving billionaires and giant corporations huge tax breaks.” The Hawaii senator Brian Schatz, the rare Democrat who is not running for president, offered the following summary: “One party wants to expand Medicare and Medicaid, and the other wants to cut them.”But some cuts to Medicare make sense. Several sought by Mr. Trump closely resemble cuts that had been proposed by President Barack Obama. And the indiscriminate attacks by Senate Democrats are a reminder of how hard it has become for Congress to perform even the most basic kinds of prudent housekeeping in the public interest.When Americans with Medicare visit a doctor’s office, the federal government pays a higher fee if that office happens to be owned by a hospital. This bonus payment serves no obvious purpose. A federal advisory board created to monitor Medicare spending has called for its elimination. And this month, the Trump administration proposed the change in its 2020 budget, along with several other measures recommended by nonpartisan experts to reduce payments to service providers without directly affecting the cost or availability of care. In total, Mr. Trump’s budget would cut proposed Medicare spending by $845 billion over the next decade. About a third of that money would come from moving funding for certain programs to other parts of the federal budget, and pruning, so the actual reduction in spending would be in the neighborhood of $600 billion. The largest chunk of those cuts would come at the expense of hospitals that are paid more than independent doctors’ offices to treat patients. The two-rate system has its roots in the real differences between a hospital and a doctor’s office. Hospitals tend to treat less-healthy patients; they provide a safety net of related services if something goes wrong; and they must comply with more stringent rules. But that line was warped as hospitals acquired physicians’ offices, taking advantage of their eligibility to collect larger payments from Medicare. Also, advances in medical technology have increased the range of services that can be provided outside a traditional hospital.In 2015, Congress sought to stem the trend by barring higher payments to any new offices acquired or established by hospitals — but existing practices were grandfathered in.The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, a federal panel created in 1997 to provide advice on Medicare spending, has recommended the end of that exemption. The White House budget estimates the change would save $28.7 billion between 2020 and 2029. A pair of more complex but related changes intended to equalize billing for procedures including medical imaging and drug management would save $240 billion more over the same period.Hospitals understandably dislike these proposals, and there may well be a better dividing line. It’s also possible that in some cases, the federal government should pay higher fees to private practices rather than pay lower fees to hospital affiliates. The administration’s budget contains only a thumbnail sketch of its own ideas, and the details clearly matter.But Democrats are not debating the details. Instead, a proposal to improve the efficiency of health care spending is being treated as an attack on the availability of health care.This is not a new phenomenon, of course. The Affordable Care Act included substantial reductions in Medicare spending. Those cuts, like Mr. Trump’s proposals, came mostly at the expense of providers rather than patients. But Republicans chose to attack the changes in language strikingly similar to the language Democrats have used in recent weeks.Both parties have fallen into the unfortunate habit of characterizing every proposal to reduce Medicare spending as an attack on the program’s beneficiaries. In fact, careful stewardship of spending is necessary to ensure the program can help as many people as possible.Mr. Trump is guilty of contradicting his campaign promise that he would not seek to cut Medicare spending. But it is the promise that was irresponsible, not the budget proposal.Some items on Mr. Trump’s list of proposed savings have obvious downsides. For example, he has proposed to cut federal spending by increasing the annual amount that several hundred thousand Medicare beneficiaries are required to pay for needed medications. The budget also proposes large cuts in Medicaid that would reduce the availability of health care for many lower-income and disabled Americans.But a president’s budget is just a list of ideas. It's up to Congress to pick the good ones.Support for past cuts in Medicare spending was driven in part by concerns about the growth of the federal debt. Both parties lately have taken a more relaxed view of the government’s borrowing capacity, in part because apocalyptic predictions about the current level of federal debt look rather silly in retrospect. But the government’s ability to borrow money is not a justification for the wasteful spending of tax dollars.Maintaining tight control of Medicare spending is good government in its own right. Congress ought to feel a sufficient urgency about eliminating unnecessary spending even if the federal government were running an annual budget surplus.Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren and other Democratic presidential candidates — including Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — have become vocal proponents of expanding Medicare eligibility.The case for such an expansion would be strengthened if proponents showed greater concern not just for broadening the availability of health care, but also for managing the cost of care.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Not All Medicare Cuts Are Bad. 

Opinion | Can Trump Avoid Caving to Kim in Vietnam? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Can Trump Avoid Caving to Kim in Vietnam?AdvertisementOpinionSupported byCan Trump Avoid Caving to Kim in Vietnam?The United States can make progress toward reducing the North Korean nuclear threat if Mr. Trump is disciplined in his diplomacy.By Susan E. RiceMs. Rice, a contributing opinion writer, was the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017.Feb. 26, 2019ImageA billboard announcing the North Korean-American summit in Hanoi.CreditCreditLuong Thai Linh/EPA, via ShutterstockOn the eve of his departure for his second summit with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, President Trump said: “I don’t want to rush anybody. I just don’t want testing. As long as there is no testing, we’re happy.” Last April, Mr. Kim announced a halt to testing nuclear weapons and missiles, a positive but reversible step. Still, with an arsenal estimated to contain dozens of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles that can reach the continental United States, the North Korean threat remains as urgent and serious as ever.Remarkably, President Trump has declared himself content with a nuclear armed North Korea. Not only is this a dangerous reversal of decades of American policy, which has long sought the “complete, verifiable, irreversible denuclearization” of the Korean Peninsula, it amounts to acceptance of North Korea as a nuclear state.For Mr. Trump, diplomacy with North Korea has always been about theater and politics. In falsely declaring after his first summit with Mr. Kim that “there is no longer a nuclear threat from North Korea,” while bragging that the risk of war — which he foolishly stoked — is now diminished, the president is intent on creating the illusion of progress. In fact, there has been none toward our core goal of full denuclearization. Mr. Trump instead touts his love of Mr. Kim at campaign rallies and generates Nobel Peace Prize nominations for himself with the aim of convincing his political base that he is a diplomatic genius. If he can punt the complex North Korean nuclear threat to the end of his presidency without being disturbed by new tests, Mr. Trump would seem content to claim victory and leave the problem to his successors.Thus, the risk of the Hanoi summit is twofold. First, in a rush to generate good optics and distract from unpleasant developments at home, Mr. Trump may make further concessions to the North Korean dictator, like a peace declaration, partial sanctions relief, or continued limitations on United States military exercises or troop presence without receiving tangible, irreversible concessions in return. Second, Mr. Trump risks squandering an opportunity to make real headway toward denuclearization.The United States intelligence community continues to assess that North Korea will not dismantle all of its nuclear weapons and delivery systems, because Mr. Kim sees them as vital to his regime’s survival. Still, it would be wise to test the limits of diplomacy and the possibility that American experts are wrong. Dialogue, backed by sanctions and concerted international pressure, represent the only rational path for defusing the North Korean nuclear threat. The alternative, a devastating conflagration that could escalate into nuclear war, should be unthinkable.Fortunately, the Trump administration’s new envoy for North Korea, Stephen Biegun, understands the risks and the opportunities. He is engaged in a serious effort to try both to eradicate North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs and address the issues impeding normalization of relations. If Mr. Trump truly empowers Mr. Biegun and refrains from granting premature concessions or acquiescing in the unacceptable status quo, there is potential for meaningful dialogue in Hanoi — unlike the hyped, hollow pledges that characterized the Singapore summit.To move the needle, the United States and North Korea will need to agree on a series of incremental, reciprocal steps that would build mutual confidence as part of a road map to full denuclearization. Such steps could combine verifiable constraints on North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs with limited sanctions relief and movement toward achieving a final peace agreement. Reasonable constraints would include opening up declared North Korean facilities to international inspectors, halting further production of fissile material and ballistic missiles, codifying Mr. Kim’s announced testing freezes and nonproliferation pledge and obtaining firm commitments from North Korea to declare the totality of its nuclear and missile infrastructure.The model for this approach, anathema as it is to Mr. Trump, is the Iran nuclear negotiations. First, the Obama administration reached an interim agreement with Iran to freeze its nuclear development and roll back aspects of its program in exchange for limited and reversible sanctions relief. This Joint Plan of Action created the conditions for extended negotiations to achieve — over a year and a half later — a final, verifiable deal to denuclearize Iran. This plan was affirmed by Congress and enshrined in international law. Iran was fully adhering to its obligations when the Trump administration unilaterally withdrew last year.To maximize the prospects for success, as in the Iran negotiations, the United States needs China, Russia, Japan and South Korea to join in overseeing implementation of any interim deal. They must also tighten enforcement of existing sanctions and agree to synchronize any deliberate easing of pressure in exchange for concrete, verifiable steps from North Korea. Unfortunately, our international partners are pursuing their separate interests, diminishing American leverage. Though the Trump administration reflexively scorns multilateral efforts, North Korea is yet another case where going it alone won’t suffice.In Hanoi, Mr. Trump has an opportunity to achieve incremental progress toward denuclearization. Unfortunately, history suggests that Mr. Trump will be content with another colorful photo opportunity and more diplomatic shadow boxing that perpetuates the illusion of success, while running down the clock on a nearly intractable challenge.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser from 2013 to 2017 and a former United States ambassador to the United Nations, is a contributing opinion writer.
@AmbassadorRice A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: Will Trump Cave Again to Kim?. 

Richard Gardner, Cold War Envoy to an Italy in Strife, Dies at 91 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexObituariesSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperObituaries|Richard Gardner, Cold War Envoy to an Italy in Strife, Dies at 91AdvertisementSupported byRichard Gardner, Cold War Envoy to an Italy in Strife, Dies at 91ImageRichard Gardner in 1977, the year he was appointed ambassador to Italy. He toggled between diplomatic assignments and a career as a Columbia University law professor.CreditCreditColumbia UniversityBy Gaia PianigianiFeb. 27, 2019Richard Gardner, who in the late 1970s served as the American ambassador to Italy in a period of political violence there and concern in Washington about the Italian Communist Party’s growing strength, died on Feb. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.His daughter, Nina Gardner, said the cause was congestive heart failure.While his profile was probably highest when he was posted to Rome, Dr. Gardner was also an adviser to Democratic presidential candidates and a distinguished law professor at Columbia University.One candidate he advised was Jimmy Carter, who on becoming president in 1977 appointed Dr. Gardner to the Rome post.Until then, American officials had long supported Italy’s Christian Democrats, who dominated politics there, and kept the door closed to leftist parties. It was the height of the Cold War, and Washington was worried about Communist influence in Western Europe, especially in France and Italy.The administration had loosened its position on Eurocommunism when it sent Dr. Gardner to Italy, but gave him instructions not to be the first one to articulate this new policy.ImageFederal judge A. Leon Higginbotham swearing in Dr. Gardner as the ambassador to Italy in 1977 as President Jimmy Carter and Dr. Gardner’s wife, Danielle Luzzatto, looked on. Dr. Gardner had been a foreign policy campaign adviser to Mr. Carter.CreditUnited Press InternationalWhen reporters asked him on his arrival what his policy on the Italian Communist Party was going to be, Dr. Gardner responded with something more creative than a “no comment.”As he recalled in his 2005 memoir, “Mission Italy: On the Front Lines of the Cold War,” he answered, diplomatically, with an old Venetian proverb, “Prima de parlar, tasi” — “Before you speak, be quiet.”At the time, the Communist Party had become the second-largest political force in Italy, a member of NATO, and was close to entering the government. One mission of the American Embassy in Rome was to gain a deeper understanding of Italy’s Communists and their intentions.These were the so-called Years of Lead in Italy, when extremists on the left, mainly the Red Brigades, terrorized the country with bombings and killings of politicians, businessmen and other public figures, while right-wing extremists murdered citizens in attacks on banks, train stations and public gatherings.In 1978, amid intense political maneuvering in Italy to allow the Communists and other opposition parties to enter the government, Dr. Gardner was called back to Washington for consultations.The Carter administration then issued a statement stressing opposition to Communist participation in Western European governments.ImageDr. Gardner with President Giovanni Leone of Italy at the presidential palace in 1977. Ambassador Gardner served during the so-called Years of Lead, when extremists on both the left and right terrorized the country.CreditAssociated PressYet in tandem with such calls, the Carter administration softened visa restrictions for Italy’s Communists Party officials, including Giorgio Napolitano, who was later president of Italy. In 1977, the Italian government allowed the party’s newspaper, L’Unità, to open a bureau in New York.And it invited prominent Italian leftists, including the filmmaker Federico Fellini, the writer Alberto Moravia and the painter Renato Guttuso, to embassy functions.In 1979, in a diplomatic accomplishment that many credited to Dr. Gardner, the United States secured Italy’s agreement to accept placing new American missiles there as part of NATO’s program to modernize nuclear forces.Italy was the first European country to do so, despite having the largest Communist party in the West, and Germany followed. The leader of the Italian Socialist Party, with whom Dr. Gardner was on good terms, also supported the decision, despite the party’s having once rejected NATO.After leaving Rome in 1981, Dr. Gardner advised Al Gore on foreign policy during his 1988 presidential campaign and Bill Clinton in his campaign in 1992. Under President Clinton, Dr. Gardner was ambassador to Spain from 1993 to 1997.Richard Newton Gardner was born in Manhattan on July 9, 1927, to Samuel and Ethel (Alias) Gardner. His father was a lawyer, his mother a homemaker.ImageDr. Gardner, right, at a private party in New York in 1997 with the writer and human-rights activist Elie Wiesel, left, and Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general.CreditBill Cunningham/The New York TimesAfter military service with the Army News Service in New Jersey, he studied international economics at Harvard College and received a law degree from Yale in 1951. A Rhodes scholar, he earned a Ph.D. in economics from Oxford University in 1954. His doctoral thesis became a book, “Sterling-Dollar Diplomacy: The Origins and the Prospects of Our International Economic Order” (1969).In 1956 he married Danielle Luzzatto, who had been born into a Jewish family in Venice and had fled Italy — to Switzerland, France and later the United States — under Benito Mussolini’s racial laws of 1938. She died in 2008.In addition to his daughter, a lecturer in international law at Johns Hopkins University and director of a consulting firm, he is survived by his son, Anthony, who was the United States ambassador to the European Union during the Obama administration; and three grandchildren.Dr. Gardner began teaching international law at Columbia University in 1954. In the early 1960s he was deputy assistant secretary of state for international organization affairs under President John F. Kennedy. He returned to academia between his diplomatic postings.At Columbia, he taught a popular seminar, “Legal Aspects of U.S. Foreign Economic Policy.” On the first day of the seminar, his students were asked to jot down their mid- and long-term career aspirations, notes that Dr. Gardner kept and later used when politicians or government officials sought his advice on a new hire. The seminar lasted from 1955 to 2012, when Dr. Gardner retired.Dr. Gardner was a strong believer in the study of foreign cultures and languages, which he called “public diplomacy.”“We are denying our foreign policy one of our greatest sources of strength as a nation — our system of higher education and our rich pluralistic culture,” he wrote in a New York Times commentary in 1983. “We have also shamefully neglected the education of our young people in foreign languages and foreign area studies. All this seems to me the height of folly.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Richard Gardner, 91, Cold War Envoy to an Italy in Strife. 

Opinion | The Many Problems With the Barr Letter - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Many Problems With the Barr LetterAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Many Problems With the Barr LetterBy unilaterally concluding that Mr. Trump did not obstruct justice, the attorney general has made it imperative that the public see the Mueller report.By Neal K. KatyalMr. Katyal is a law professor at Georgetown. He drafted the special counsel regulations under which Robert Mueller was appointed.March 24, 2019ImageAttorney General William Barr said that Robert Mueller’s team drew no conclusions about whether President Trump illegally obstructed justice.CreditCreditT.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York TimesOn Sunday afternoon, soon after Attorney General Bill Barr released a letter outlining the Mueller investigation report, President Trump tweeted “Total EXONERATION!” But there are any number of reasons the president should not be taking a victory lap. First, obviously, he still faces the New York investigations into campaign finance violations by the Trump team and the various investigations into the Trump organization. And Mr. Barr, in his letter, acknowledges that the Mueller report “does not exonerate” Mr. Trump on the issue of obstruction, even if it does not recommend an indictment. But the critical part of the letter is that it now creates a whole new mess. After laying out the scope of the investigation and noting that Mr. Mueller’s report does not offer any legal recommendations, Mr. Barr declares that it therefore “leaves it to the attorney general to decide whether the conduct described in the report constitutes a crime.” He then concludes the president did not obstruct justice when he fired the F.B.I. director, James Comey.Such a conclusion would be momentous in any event. But to do so within 48 hours of receiving the report (which pointedly did not reach that conclusion) should be deeply concerning to every American. The special counsel regulations were written to provide the public with confidence that justice was done. It is impossible for the public to reach that determination without knowing two things. First, what did the Mueller report conclude, and what was the evidence on obstruction of justice? And second, how could Mr. Barr have reached his conclusion so quickly?Mr. Barr’s letter raises far more questions than it answers, both on the facts and the law. His letter says Mr. Mueller set “out evidence on both sides of the question and leaves unresolved what the special counsel views as ‘difficult issues’ of law and fact concerning whether the president’s actions and intent could be viewed as obstruction.” Yet we don’t know what those “difficult issues” were, because Mr. Barr doesn’t say, or why Mr. Mueller, after deciding not to charge on conspiracy, let Mr. Barr make the decision on obstruction.On the facts, Mr. Barr says that the government would need to prove that Mr. Trump acted with “corrupt intent” and there were no such actions. But how would Mr. Barr know? Did he even attempt to interview Mr. Trump about his intentions? What kind of prosecutor would make a decision about someone’s intent without even trying to talk to him? Particularly in light of Mr. Mueller’s pointed statement that his report does not “exonerate” Mr. Trump. Mr. Mueller didn’t have to say anything like that. He did so for a reason. And that reason may well be that there is troubling evidence in the substantial record that he compiled.Furthermore, we do not know why Mr. Mueller did not try to force an interview with the president. The reason matters greatly. Mr. Mueller could have concluded that interviews of sitting presidents for obstruction matters are better done within the context of a congressional impeachment investigation (perhaps because a sitting president cannot be indicted, the Barr letter says this legal argument didn’t influence Mr. Barr’s conclusion but again is pointedly silent as to Mr. Mueller). Or Mr. Barr could have concluded that the attorney general, not a special counsel, should carry out such an interview. The fact that Mr. Barr rushed to judgment, within 48 hours, after a 22-month investigation, is deeply worrisome. The opening lines of the obstruction section of Mr. Barr’s letter are even more concerning. It says that the special counsel investigated “a number of actions by the president — most of which have been the subject of public reporting.” That suggests that at least some of the foundation for an obstruction of justice charge has not yet been made public. There will be no way to have confidence in such a quick judgment about previously unreported actions without knowing what those actions were.On the law, Mr. Barr’s letter also obliquely suggests that he consulted with the Office of Legal Counsel, the elite Justice Department office that interprets federal statutes. This raises the serious question of whether Mr. Barr’s decision on Sunday was based on the bizarre legal views that he set out in an unsolicited 19-page memo last year. That memo made the argument that the obstruction of justice statute does not apply to the president because the text of the statute doesn’t specifically mention the president. Of course, the murder statute doesn’t mention the president either, but no one thinks the president can’t commit murder. Indeed, the Office of Legal Counsel had previously concluded that such an argument to interpret another criminal statute, the bribery law, was wrong.As such, Mr. Barr’s reference to the office raises the question of whether he tried to enshrine his idiosyncratic view into the law and bar Mr. Trump’s prosecution. His unsolicited memo should be understood for what it is, a badly argued attempt to put presidents above the law. If he used that legal fiction to let President Trump off the hook, Congress would have to begin an impeachment investigation to vindicate the rule of law.Sometimes momentous government action leaves everyone uncertain about the next move. This is not one of those times. Congress now has a clear path of action. It must first demand the release of the Mueller report, so that Americans can see the evidence for themselves. Then, it must call Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller to testify. Mr. Barr in particular must explain his rationale for reaching the obstruction judgment he made.No one wants a president to be guilty of obstruction of justice. The only thing worse than that is a guilty president who goes without punishment. The Barr letter raises the specter that we are living in such times.RelatedMore on the Mueller report.Mueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy, but Stops Short of Exonerating President on ObstructionMarch 24, 2019Opinion | The Editorial Board: No Collusion, No ‘Exoneration’March 24, 2019Opinion | Charles M. Blow: It’s Bigger Than Mueller and TrumpMarch 24, 2019Opinion | Noah Bookbinder: Release the Whole Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Opinion | Caroline Fredrickson: We Don’t Need to Read the Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Opinion | Neal K. Katyal: The Mueller Report Is Coming. Here’s What to Expect.Feb. 21, 2019Opinion | Farhad Manjoo: Collusion Was a Seductive DelusionMarch 25, 2019Neal K. Katyal (@neal_katyal) was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama and is a law professor at Georgetown. He drafted the special counsel regulations under which Robert Mueller was appointed.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: The Many Problems with the Barr Letter. 

Opinion | The Case for Aipac - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Case for AipacAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Case for AipacCritics say that the pro-Israel group is too powerful and too far to the right. Neither is true.By Mark HorowitzMr. Horowitz is a contributing writer at Tablet magazine.March 22, 2019ImageHoward Kohr, executive director of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, addressing the annual Aipac Policy Conference in Washington last March.CreditCreditSipa, via Associated PressUntil recently, if you had asked most Jews, it seemed like playing the Aipac card had gone out of fashion around 2007. That was the year two political scientists published a book called “The Israel Lobby,” with its sensational claim that Aipac, short for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, and other Jewish organizations controlled American policy in the Middle East.Their timing was lousy. By then, Aipac’s influence, whatever it had been, was already in decline. After Barack Obama was elected, the group didn’t even have enough juice to stop his Iran nuclear deal, despite a full-court press.But this Sunday, when 18,000 members and supporters are expected to descend on Washington for the annual Aipac Policy Conference, a new wave of anti-Israel critics, including several new members of Congress, have resurrected the anti-Semitic canard that American Jews have too much power. And they’re blaming Aipac again.Progressive groups are demanding that Democratic presidential candidates, who in past cycles might have rushed at the chance to address such a large and engaged crowd, stay away. At least six, including Senator Kamala Harris, who addressed the conference in 2017, have said they would comply.These groups and their supporters in Congress — above all Representative Ilhan Omar — may not get points for originality, but demonizing Aipac still turns out to be an effective dog whistle. As accusations are amplified across social media and the press, Jews find themselves forced to defend — again! — an organization that many of them never much loved in the first place. But Jews know who the real target is. Aipac, c’est moi.The bill of particulars never changes: Aipac has too much money and power. Aipac bribes Congress into twisting American foreign policy against the national interest. American Jews are more loyal to Israel than they are to the United States. And, most laughably, the Israel lobby silences all criticism of Israel.Where to start? Maybe with this: Aipac’s success isn’t “about the Benjamins.” It flows from the fact that a majority of Americans, not just Jews, are predisposed to support Israel. Polls and surveys consistently confirm this.Why is it so surprising, then, that a lobbying organization exists to channel this support into political and legislative action? Labor unions do it, chambers of commerce do it, abortion rights groups do it and Arab-Americans do it. It would be weird if there wasn’t a pro-Israel lobby. “There’s nothing new about lobbying on behalf of causes in foreign places,” Hubert Humphrey said in 1976. “It’s as American as a hot dog or apple pie.”And Aipac was never the big spender its antagonists claim. Its total lobbying expenditures in 2018 came to $3.5 million, which doesn’t even put it in the top 50. (Realtors spent $72.8 million.) Instead, Aipac depends on grassroots organizing in every state. It is built on people power.Not that Aipac supporters are afraid to write checks — a nationwide network of affiliated political action committees and donors is a key component of its strategy. Still, the total amount of pro-Israel donations to members of Congress came to $10.6 million in 2018, only the 34th highest among Washington interest groups, behind the entertainment industry ($15.6 million), lawyers ($80.6 million) and retirees ($110 million).The idea that Aipac is tied at the hip to the Republican Party and Israel’s far right is also an exaggeration. Aipac is more comfortable, and was always more effective, as a bipartisan operation, positioned near the center of Jewish-American politics. Today, it supports the creation of a Palestinian state alongside Israel, a view that is widely held by American Jews, but opposed by the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s current coalition.In 2007, Sheldon Adelson, a major donor, broke with Aipac over its conciliatory positions and established a rival group to its right called the Israeli American Council. And to its left is the liberal-Zionist group J Street.Mr. Netanyahu will address this year’s conference, but so will Benny Gantz, a former general and Mr. Netanyahu’s opponent in next month’s elections. It’s rare to have an Israeli opposition leader speak at Aipac on the eve of an election. Simply by scheduling Mr. Gantz, Aipac is signaling its own Netanyahu fatigue.Does Aipac have failings? Sure. They are the same as those that beset any older, established organization: bureaucratic rigidity and an inability to adapt quickly to new challenges. In Aipac’s case, it was spoiled for years by the absence of any serious opposition.But today Aipac is struggling to adjust. Political and generational divisions are jeopardizing the organization’s old-school, bipartisan approach. Aipac used to be able to sidestep issues like settlements and the occupation, but now, with the Israeli right threatening annexation of the West Bank, the occupation has become the moral rallying point of the Jewish left, and Aipac appears paralyzed.The left and the right are again using anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism as wedge issues to break up traditional alliances. Anti-Zionist groups are working hard to delegitimize the Jewish state, not only on Capitol Hill, but also on college campuses and on the nation’s editorial pages.The hard-core pro-Israel response is to circle the wagons. Pro-Israel Zionists who have criticized the occupation are excommunicated. This is crazy. Anyone who believes in the legitimacy of the Zionist mission, whatever their political stripe, should be embraced as an ally in this latest battle against anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism.If Aipac wants to make itself useful in the hearts-and-minds campaign that lies ahead, it should consider rewriting the rules, and make common cause with the loyal opposition. By co-opting the Zionist left and welcoming the kind of boisterous debate that Israelis themselves engage in every day, it might end up with an even stronger case for Israel than ever before.RelatedIsrael Lobby Convenes in Washington Amid Fraying Bipartisanship and Rising TensionMarch 23, 2019Opinion | Thomas L. FriedmanIlhan Omar, Aipac and MeMarch 6, 2019Mark Horowitz (@MarkHorowitz) is a contributing writer at Tablet magazine. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: Making the Case for Aipac. 

Opinion | The New York Times Endorses Jumaane Williams for Public Advocate - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The New York Times Endorses Jumaane Williams for Public AdvocateAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe New York Times Endorses Jumaane Williams for Public AdvocateVote on Tuesday, Feb. 26.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 21, 2019ImageJumaane Williams speaking at a forum for candidates for New York City public advocate.CreditCreditHiroko Masuike/The New York TimesOne of the best-kept secrets in New York City right now is a special election for public advocate on Tuesday. But voters have good reason to pay close attention.Public advocate is a job that comes with little power, but the chance for significant influence over the direction of the city. It’s also been a steppingstone to higher office. The most recent public advocate, Letitia James, was elected state attorney general in November, creating the current opening. Before her, Mayor Bill de Blasio held the role.This year, 17 candidates are in the race. The winner will lead an office that’s supposed to monitor and investigate city agencies, but has no subpoena authority and a budget of just $3.6 million. The real prize is the office’s bully pulpit, a perch from which the occupant can push the concerns of New Yorkers that have gone unaddressed by City Hall.At a time in which American politics can be acerbic, the large, diverse and civic-minded group of candidates running for this local office is a refreshing change.Melissa Mark-Viverito, the former City Council speaker, is an experienced public servant with a vivid understanding of government, and a clear passion for using her considerable skills to help vulnerable New Yorkers. As speaker, she successfully pressed for legislation to lower penalties for many nonviolent offenses, pushed through paid sick leave legislation, and was a stalwart defender of immigrants.Rafael Espinal, a Brooklyn councilman, has pushed for city control of the subway system, an idea worthy of robust discussion. In a 51-member City Council, Mr. Espinal has been a standout. In 2016, he approved a rezoning of the East New York neighborhood he represents only after winning far more investment for the underserved area from City Hall.Michael Blake, an ambitious state assemblyman who represents the Bronx, has ideas on affordable housing worth considering, like denying city tax credits to landlords who abuse tenants.Dawn Smalls, a Manhattan lawyer who served in both the Obama and Clinton administrations, has substantive experience in federal government.Assemblyman Daniel O’Donnell is a longtime Manhattan legislator with a solid record that includes helping pass the state’s landmark gay marriage law. Since the public advocate serves best as a foil for the city’s mayor, Councilman Eric Ulrich — the race’s only prominent Republican, though a moderate one — might seem to be an obvious match against Mr. de Blasio, a liberal Democrat. He may even benefit from a divided Democratic vote. But while he brings years of experience in city government, on the issues that matter most — housing and mass transit — Mr. Ulrich is unlikely to be a champion.The best candidate to hold Mr. de Blasio accountable and to press for reforms is Jumaane Williams, a veteran city councilman with a record of accomplishment and a steadfast willingness to stand up to powerful interests on behalf of New Yorkers.Mr. Williams, a former tenant organizer from Brooklyn first elected in 2009, helped build the movement to end the overuse of police stops under Mayor Michael Bloomberg, a major injustice from which the city is still recovering. Along with Councilman Brad Lander, Mr. Williams sponsored the Community Safety Act, which established an inspector general for the Police Department.Mr. Williams has stood up to Mr. de Blasio as well, voting against the mayor’s housing plan, arguing that it could worsen the displacement of low-income residents, for example. He has also been increasingly outspoken about the mayor’s record on police reform, pressing Mr. de Blasio to exercise more oversight and accountability over the Police Department.He has won passage of more than 50 bills, far more than many of his colleagues. He has also been arrested while protesting nearly a dozen times. Both facts are keys to understanding Mr. Williams, a hard worker passionate about making government work better for the people it serves. He sponsored hard-fought legislation to require more safety training for construction workers, after a series of high-profile deaths in the industry. He successfully pushed legislation to strengthen city enforcement against tenant harassment, and another bill to prevent landlords from discriminating against domestic violence survivors. While Mr. Williams has said he is personally opposed to abortion, he firmly supports abortion rights, and has voted consistently on the issue. On gay rights, Mr. Williams has evolved. Though he once said he believed marriage was between a man and a woman, he has in recent years become a dependable supporter of L.G.B.T.Q. rights, including marriage equality. Rarely has the value of the public advocate been clearer than in the 1990s, when Mark Green used the role to reveal draconian cuts to social services under Mayor Rudy Giuliani. Indeed, Mr. Green’s advocacy was so effective that in 1994, Mr. Giuliani slashed the budget of the public advocate’s office. Mr. Williams is best able to carry on in the vigorous tradition of Mr. Green — who is backing Mr. Williams. He is the right person to fight for the millions of New Yorkers frustrated with the city’s subways, struggling to find affordable housing in its neighborhoods, and waiting to have their voices heard. We enthusiastically endorse him as the city’s next public advocate.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Jumaane Williams for Public Advocate. 

Opinion | Who Do Jared and Ivanka Think They Are? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Who Do Jared and Ivanka Think They Are?AdvertisementOpinionSupported byWho Do Jared and Ivanka Think They Are?A new book probes the Kushner family’s secrets.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistMarch 18, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版ImageJared Kushner and Ivanka Trump boarding Air Force One.CreditCreditAl Drago for The New York TimesMany high achievers, particularly women and people of color, suffer from impostor syndrome, the fear that they don’t belong in the rarefied realm to which they’ve ascended and that they will soon be found out. Even Michelle Obama, who is, according to a Gallup poll conducted last year, the most admired woman in America, has said that she feels it. “I share that with you because we all have doubts in our abilities, about our power and what that power is,” she told students in London in December.Well, maybe not all of us. I’ve just finished Vicky Ward’s “Kushner, Inc.,” a scintillating investigation of Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump’s White House sojourn, which comes out on Tuesday. It’s full of damning details: contempt for the entitled, venal couple may be the one thing that unites all of D.C.’s warring factions. Still, the first daughter and her husband remain psychologically mysterious, at least to me. Why don’t they have impostor syndrome, given that their total lack of qualifications for the jobs they are doing makes them actual impostors?According to “Kushner, Inc.,” Gary Cohn, former director of the National Economic Council, has told people that Ivanka Trump thinks she could someday be president. “Her father’s reign in Washington, D.C., is, she believes, the beginning of a great American dynasty,” writes Ward. Kushner, whose pre-White House experience included owning a boutique newspaper and helming a catastrophically ill-timed real estate deal, has arrogated to himself substantial parts of American foreign policy. According to Ward, shortly after Rex Tillerson was confirmed as secretary of state, Kushner told him “to leave Mexico to him because he’d have Nafta wrapped up by October.” As political actors, the couple are living exemplars of the Dunning-Kruger effect, a psychological phenomenon which leads incompetent people to overestimate their ability because they can’t grasp how much they don’t know.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Partly, the Jared and Ivanka story is about the “reality distortion field” — a term one of Ward’s sources uses about Kushner — created by great family wealth. She quotes a member of Trump’s legal team saying that the two “have no idea how normal people perceive, understand, intuit.” Privilege, in them, has been raised to the level of near sociopathy.Ward, the author of two previous books about the worlds of high finance and real estate, has known Kushner slightly for a long time; she told me that when he bought The New York Observer newspaper in 2006, he tried to hire her. She knocks down the idea that either he or his wife is a stabilizing force or moral compass in the Trump administration. Multiple White House sources told her they think it was Kushner who ordered the closing of White House visitor logs in April 2017, because he “didn’t want his frenetic networking exposed.” Ward reports that Cohn was stunned by their blasé reaction to Trump’s defense of the white-nationalist marchers in Charlottesville, Va.: “He was upset that they were not sufficiently upset.”Still, even if you assume that the couple are amoral climbers, their behavior still doesn’t quite make sense. Ward writes that Ivanka’s chief concern is her personal brand, but that brand has been trashed. The book cites an October 2017 survey measuring consumer approval of more than 1,600 brands. Ivanka’s fashion line was in the bottom 10. A leading real estate developer tells Ward that Kushner, now caught up in multiple state and federal investigations, has become radioactive: “No one will want to do business with him.” (Kushner resigned as C.E.O. of Kushner Companies in 2017, but has kept most of his stake in the business.)To truly make sense of their motivations, Ward told me, you have to understand the gravitational pull of their fathers. Husband and wife are both “really extraordinarily orientated and identified through their respective fathers in a way that most fully formed adults are not,” she said.Among the most interesting parts of “Kushner, Inc.,” are the chapters about the business history of Charles Kushner, Jared’s felonious father, and his plan to restore his reputation, with Jared’s help, after getting out of prison in 2006. Part of that rehabilitation project was the purchase of a flagship building in Manhattan — 666 Fifth Avenue, an absurdly on-the-nose address — for which the family paid a record amount at the very height of the real estate market in 2007. When the Great Recession hit, the building became a white elephant, its debt threatening the family fortune.Ward’s book suggests that the search for someone who would bail out 666 Fifth Avenue has played a significant role in American foreign policy during the Trump administration. And since the completion of her book, we’ve learned that Trump overrode intelligence officials, who were concerned about Kushner and his family’s ties to foreign investors, to give Kushner a security clearance.More from Opinion on Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump:Opinion | The Editorial Board: Questions For and About Jared KushnerMarch 6, 2019Opinion | Nicholas Kristof: Jared and the Saudi Crown Prince Go Nuclear?March 2, 2019Opinion | Rhonda Garelick: Brand Ivanka: Clothing Fit for Trumpian TimesJuly 26, 2018Opinion | Maureen Dowd: Ivanka and Vodka, on the RocksJune 23, 2018In the end, the Kushner family seems to have gotten what it wanted. Last year, Brookfield Asset Management, which has substantial investment from the government of Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, came to the Kushners’ rescue. (The Qataris have denied any advance knowledge of the deal.)“You’ll notice that the U.S. position toward Qatar changes when the Qataris bail out 666 Fifth Avenue,” said Ward, adding, “We look like a banana republic.” Maybe that’s why Jared and Ivanka appear so blithely confident. As public servants, they’re obviously way out of their depth. But as self-dealing scions of a gaudy autocracy? They’re naturals.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and women’s rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.
@michelleinbklyn A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Who Do Jared and Ivanka Think They Are?. 

Opinion | Appalachia Is More Diverse Than You Think - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Appalachia Is More Diverse Than You ThinkAdvertisementOpinionSupported byAppalachia Is More Diverse Than You ThinkBeneath the pro-Trump sentiment is a region struggling to rebuild itself.By Robert GipeMr. Gipe is a novelist.March 15, 2019ImageEmpty coal cars in Hazard, Ky., in 2016.CreditCreditMike Belleme for The New York TimesHARLAN, Ky. — I have lived in the Appalachian coal fields for 30 years, working as a writer and an educator, and I have often been asked to “explain” my region. Appalachia is a huge, diverse part of the country, including some or all of 13 states and 25 million people, but around me there is high unemployment, poverty and dependence on government subsidies. People ask me how an overwhelming majority of people in a community such as mine could vote for Donald Trump.It is a tough question. Appalachia has been going through rapid, often painful changes for the past hundred years, and our communities have been working hard to rebuild our economies. Over the past decade, many of us have put aside partisan politics to work together to do what’s best for the places we live in, the places we love. But the 2016 election has strained the bonds we’ve forged — and has led to deep reflection and conversation within the region.When I arrived in Appalachia in 1989, America relied on coal for a third of its electricity. Through the early 2000s, coal trucks filled the highways and winding two-lane roads around my home. The state reaped millions in taxes on the industry. It was such a big, valuable business that if a chunk of coal flew off a truck and cracked a windshield, the state replaced the windshield, no questions asked.Earlier in the century, the coal companies — and in some places, the miners’ union — maintained the infrastructure of coal mining communities. That meant that when coal employment began to collapse in the 1960s, everything took a hit: health care, roads, housing.The industry’s paternalism gave way to the paternalism of the federal government and its S.S.I. checks and black-lung checks and food stamps. All that did, though, was prop up the coal industry, which remained the dominant, if not exclusive, private employer in many Appalachian communities.By the early 21st century, thousands of people still worked in the mines, but those thousands were only a fraction of the number who worked in them in the 1930s and ’40s. Coal production remained high, but coalfield counties had some of the country’s highest unemployment and poverty rates.At the same time, we were watching a political shift. As technology enabled fewer miners to produce more coal, union ranks dwindled, and the Democratic Party came to rely less on rural and industrial workers and more on an urban and suburban base. The remaining miners made common cause with the coal operators.By the time Barack Obama was re-elected in 2012, a scientific and corporate consensus had coalesced around the reality of global warming. But to the coal industry and its workers, it felt like an existential challenge: To be anything other than 100 percent in favor of the industry line was to be an “enemy of coal.”Not that workers have a choice. The remaining jobs are too often wielded as a cudgel of social control. As are government benefits. Saying the wrong thing, voting for the wrong person, can cost a person his job, or get his check cut off.And things got worse; between 2012 and 2016, mine employment took another sharp downturn. In 2016, over 70 percent of coalfield voters chose Donald Trump.I voted for Hillary Clinton, but many of my friends voted for Mr. Trump. I try to listen when they talk about why.I don’t think my community necessarily believed that Mr. Trump could bring back mining jobs, as he promised, but we desperately miss good work in Appalachia. Millions of us have left the region to find work. Many of us who remain are striving to create new work here in Appalachia, for ourselves and our neighbors. But the national political rhetoric plays on our worst selves and drives us apart.Many of my pro-Trump neighbors are frustrated and angry, but they are not naïve. They bear a hard-earned sophistication regarding the reliability of political promises. Federal subsidies have kept a roof over our heads and food in our bellies, but they are no substitute for good jobs. Ignoring or eliminating environmental and workplace safety regulations and suppressing taxes on the corporations that own the minerals and run the companies have not created prosperity for the bulk of the community, either.Sexism and racism have played a significant role in the voting habits of some of my neighbors. So has anger. So have conservative religious beliefs. But that isn’t just in Appalachia. That’s what’s happened in America. As a nation, we are capable of great violence against those we have discounted, disagree with or feel we can afford to ignore. It is very discouraging when we do. It is painful.What pains me and many of my neighbors in the mountains the most are divisive political posturing and partisan wrangling divorced from the realities of our economic struggles. Between the coal economy crash in 2012 and Mr. Trump’s election in 2016, coalfield communities began to look for economic life after coal. We began to look at our other assets and what else our people might do. We still are looking, but that is more difficult to do when we are pitted against one another.We all crave honorable work at a living wage. We want success tied to the success of the community. We want to be safe. We are weary of fear. We are exhausted by hate. We in Appalachia join our fellow Americans in asking: Who will encourage our best selves? Who will enable our joy? Who will release the energy hiding in our hearts?Robert Gipe is the author of the novel “Weedeater” and a contributor to “Appalachian Reckoning: A Region Responds to ‘Hillbilly Elegy.’”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: Appalachia Is Not What You Think. 

The Mess of Modern Power Dressing - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexFashionSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperFashion|The Mess of Modern Power DressingAdvertisementSupported byThe Mess of Modern Power Dressing The dress codes of influence and authority are one big mass of confusion — just look at the Oscars and Congress, at Goldman Sachs and the recent runways. But is that a bad thing?ImageCreditCreditValerio Mezzanotti for The New York TimesBy Vanessa FriedmanMarch 14, 2019What does female power dressing look like today? As Theresa May fights for her political life and agenda in a bright red jacket and statement necklace, strict black suits and pearls, and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez exerts a magnetic force in a shoulder-pad-less white shirt and plain skirt at SXSW, it’s hard not to wonder.The struggle to provide an answer formed the subtext of the recent fashion season, which ended last week in Paris. Many proposals were made, but few conclusions reached.Backstage at Givenchy, for example, Clare Waight Keller talked about “power shoulders” and created big domed ones of tweed on her pantsuits and sharp ledge ones on jackets. They were dwarfed only by the linebacker shoulders at Saint Laurent (often paired with micro-hemlines), the bolster shoulders at MaxMara and Hugo Boss, and the soft shoulders at Chanel.At Celine, Hedi Slimane riffed relentlessly on the Dress for Success era in culottes and blazers, not to mention the Margaret Thatcher pussy-bow blouse. At Burberry, Riccardo Tisci offered his version of adult dressing (following his version of Gen Z dressing) in the form of ties and cardigans and trenches. Thom Browne subverted the Man in the Gray Flannel Suit by turning him into a woman — and then turning his suits into trompe l’oeil sheaths.Rick Owens name-checked “the power of glamour” as expressed in film; so did Julien Dossena at Paco Rabanne. There were combat boots everywhere. Also a lot of pinstripes. That’s three entirely different suits of armor.ImageCreditKamil Zihnioglu/Associated PressImageCreditThibault Camus/Associated PressWatching, you thought: Aha — 1980s power dressing is back! Then you thought: Aha — it’s the 1940s! Then you thought: the 1970s? Then you thought: whatever. There was no consensus. It was a messy state of affairs, and it reflects our messy current understanding of the situation. Which may actually be the real point. And why it matters.“Power dressing” is a term we throw around often and easily, kind of like “sustainability,” without really grappling with a definition. In part that’s because the definition changes with culture and society. We tend to think, as Justice Potter Stewart said in a 1964 Supreme Court case, “I know it when I see it.” But what if that’s no longer true? Does it matter?Once upon a time, power dressing was identified with the uniform of the ruling class, whether demarcated by gender or profession or race, and those who would have access to it. Once upon a time, during her husband’s first presidential campaign, Michelle Obama wore floral dresses with sleeves to sugarcoat just how strong she really was. What the runways revealed, however, is just how incoherent such tropes have become.We are in a convulsive moment of change, one in which the old order and the new coexist in uneasy alliance; one in which received notions of presentation are increasingly being rejected in favor of individual identity. A person’s experience and history are worn as badges of pride, not disguised so as to better blend in.You can see this on the public stage, whether with the freshman class in Congress or on the Oscars red carpet, with Billy Porter in his gown and Melissa McCarthy in her trousers and cape. And you can see it increasingly on less spotlighted stages too: in the New York City Commission on Human Rights issuing new guidelines categorizing governance of hairstyles as racial discrimination; in Virgin Airlines announcing that it would no longer require its female flight attendants to wear skirts or makeup; and in Goldman Sachs announcing that it, too, was relaxing its dress code (though what that means in practice was pretty open-ended, especially when it comes to women). Each person gets to decide how to dress to signal authority.The codes (because what is power dressing but a dress code by another name?) of old are going out the window. Both those that are explicit and dictated, and those that are unspoken but widely accepted. This is a more complicated proposition for everyone, of course: designers, consumers, viewers, job hunters. More choice is alway harder. It places the burden on the dresser as opposed to the majority. It requires active thinking about clothes and identity as opposed to passive shopping.In an email exchange, trying to hash this all out, Richard Ford, a professor at Stanford Law School who is working on a book on dress codes, wrote: “There is a lot to like in the demise of overly stringent dress codes and such, but it’s also true that the old uniform of business suit had a certain democratizing power — everyone from world leaders to file clerks wore a suit, and eventually as the work force became integrated, there were standard feminine versions as well — a safe bet for women who wanted to command respect.”ImageCreditChristophe Petit Tesson/EPA, via ShutterstockFashion isn’t there to provide an easy solution to the problem. That’s up to individuals.This is why, increasingly, designers seem to explain their shows as being aggregations of “characters,” and different kinds of women being given different ways to signal their aspirations. This was a thing, for example, at Marc Jacobs, who gave us a bit of it all — big voluminous protective garments and florals and feathers and rigorous minimalism — and at Louis Vuitton, where Nicolas Ghesquière’s piazza full of performers and BCBG art dealers and rockabilly kids brought Paris to a close. It has become the essence of Alessandro Michele’s Gucci and its success, which maybe should have taught us all something.You can see the flux as a sign of weakness or inability to commit. (I’ve leveled that accusation, on occasion.) But maybe instead of wanting a neat and easy new look, we should be celebrating the confusion and what it signifies. A loosening of bounds, a pivot point, an expression of the reality that diversity of all kinds (thought, aesthetic, opinion) is on the rise, and that the uniform is no longer an object of desire. An acknowledgment that there are many different kinds of power and ways to design for them. At some time not that far away those designs, or more accessible versions of them, will end up in a store near you — the images have already saturated social media — filtered down and out through the lens of Stuff You Can Wear (also, probably, stuff the variety of female presidential candidates may have worn). At which stage you’ll have to decide what all of this means for yourself. Because right now, there are so very many, many possibilities.Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.
@VVFriedman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: The Mess of Modern Power Dressing. 

Opinion | Is Nancy Pelosi a Climate Skeptic? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Is Nancy Pelosi a Climate Skeptic?AdvertisementOpinionSupported byIs Nancy Pelosi a Climate Skeptic?It’s time to reckon with the internal contradictions of climate policy.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistFeb. 15, 2019ImagePolice arrested protesters outside of Representative Nancy Pelosi’s office on Capitol Hill in November.CreditCreditShawn Thew/EPA, via ShutterstockIs Nancy Pelosi a climate skeptic? Of course not — and I would know. But you might be excused for thinking so, given the curt wave-off the House speaker delivered to the liberally ballyhooed, legislatively stillborn Green New Deal.“The green dream, or whatever they call it, nobody knows what it is, but they’re for it, right?” That was Pelosi talking about the deal as if it were a grandchild’s latest video game obsession. The San Francisco Democrat is nothing if not a political realist, and that kind of realism means that no Congress is going to mobilize the country to fight climate change as if it were an alien invasion, as my colleague Farhad Manjoo recently suggested.Higher mileage standards, more subsidies for wind and solar, signing the Paris climate deal? Those are the sorts of policies Nancy Pelosi believes in, and would happily endorse if stars align under a future Democratic president.But obtaining 100 percent of America’s power needs through renewable energy, “upgrading all existing buildings in the United States” to meet “maximal” efficiency standards, and dealing with the issue of cow flatulence by reducing meat consumption, as the Green New Deal proposes? Fuhgeddaboudit.Then again, if climate change is a potentially humanity-wrecking event, why shouldn’t we treat it as an alien-invasion equivalent? Let’s assume the most dire predictions are right and we don’t have a moment to lose in substantially decarbonizing the global economy, no matter what the financial cost or political pain. In that case, isn’t Pelosi’s incrementalist approach to climate absurdly inadequate?Isn’t it, in fact, like trying to put out a forest fire with a plant mister?Marxists of old liked to talk about the fundamental contradictions of capitalism. Today we should also reckon with the contradictions of climate policy. Are we dealing with a problem so severe that it requires the political and economic equivalent of war socialism? Or should we think of climate change roughly the same way we think about global poverty — a serious problem we can work patiently to solve without resort to extreme measures like ending capitalism or depriving equally serious priorities of the attention they deserve?If it’s the former, then another windmill subsidy or carbon-trading scheme won’t do. We need to take extreme measures: to declare a national emergency, strictly ration every citizen’s carbon footprint, raise taxes on the rich and middle class alike to fund trillions of dollars in green infrastructure projects worldwide, and even impose economic sanctions on China and India if they don’t stop building new coal plants. If the latter, however, then can we at least end the apocalyptic talk, especially since we aren’t prepared to take more than piecemeal steps?So far, activists have been able to elide this contradiction, claiming both that climate change is a World War III-level challenge, and that we can deal with it relatively easily. That may do wonders for public awareness — do your part and bike to work! — but it is self-deceiving, if not dishonest. Whatever else might be said of it, the Green New Deal blows the lid off that delusion. It’s a remarkably honest attempt to offer a massive answer to what its authors see as an epochal problem.Yet its virtue is also its undoing. The Green New Dealers may want to spend trillions on a climate moonshot (and trillions more on their other policy hobbyhorses). Most people don’t even want to spend pennies, at least if it’s their own money. In November, voters in Washington rejected a carbon fee by a margin of 12 percentage points. That’s a blue state. Endorsements of the Green New Deal may have rolled in from Democratic presidential hopefuls, but the chances of them enacting any of it if they take office are about as great as Scott Pruitt being elected to the board of the Sierra Club. Even Barack Obama didn’t endorse a gas tax when he had a chance to do so in 2009.All of this means that climate activists should get wise to a central fact: If Pelosi is skeptical of their policies, where do they imagine the rest the country is? Those who believe climate change will become irreversible, uncontrollable and catastrophic in a few years should get to work on their fallout shelters. The E.P.A. won’t be coming to the rescue.By contrast, those who think climate change is a real but manageable problem would do well to say as much, too. Climate change means change, not doom. It shouldn’t be hard to make the case, even to conservatives, for large-scale investments in climate resilience, such as better coastal defenses. It shouldn’t be hard, either, to make the case even to liberals that dynamic market economies are essential for creating the kind of wealth that makes environmental protections affordable, along with the innovations that make environmental fixes possible.Pelosi’s seal clap sealed the fate of the Green New Deal. Now it’s time to move climate policy beyond impractical radicalism and feckless virtue-signaling to something that can achieve a plausible, positive and bipartisan result.RelatedMore views on the Green New DealOpinion: Is the Green New Deal a Leftist Fantasy?Feb. 14, 2019Opinion | Michelle Goldberg: Donald Trump Is President and Anything Is PossibleFeb. 15, 2019Opinion | Ross Douthat: One Cheer for the Green New DealFeb. 9, 2019Opinion | Jedediah Britton-Purdy: The Green New Deal Is What Realistic Environmental Policy Looks LikeFeb. 14, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.
@BretStephensNYT • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Is Nancy Pelosi A Climate
Skeptic?. 

Opinion | The Answer Is Blowin’ in the Wind - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Answer Is Blowin’ in the WindAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Answer Is Blowin’ in the WindOf Stalin, Hitler and environmental protection. By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistFeb. 13, 2019ImageAlexandria Ocasio-Cortez, center, and Edward Markey, right, presenting the Green New Deal.CreditCreditPete Marovich for The New York TimesYour challenge for today is to build your own Green New Deal.You may have heard of the first one, which we’ll call Green for short. It’s a 15-point proposed House resolution with no force of law, but the Republicans have been sniping at it as if it’s a blueprint for the elimination of everything from sidewalks to free speech.“The Democrats’ ‘Green New Deal’ brings to mind an insight from Churchill: Socialism may begin with the best of intentions, but it always ends with the Gestapo,” tweeted Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas. As only he could.Mitch McConnell, who generally doesn’t like to let the Senate consider Democratic ideas more substantive than post-office-naming, gleefully announced he was going to schedule a vote on the whole Green package.Democrats from conservative states, or coal-mining states, or just neurotic states, softly moaned.Green is super idealistic. It calls for “net-zero greenhouse gas emissions” by 2030, which is totally commendable. And you’d think more than enough ambition for one resolution.But the sponsors — Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts and the increasingly famous Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of Queens — added, among other things, the creation of “economic security for all people of the United States” and “repairing historic oppression” of 12 different groups, ranging from “indigenous peoples” to women to “depopulated rural communities.”All good thoughts, but maybe too much of an agenda for one press release. Ocasio-Cortez is one of the most talented tweeters in Congress. You’d think she’d know we live in a world that has trouble focusing on more than 280 characters.How about just one really important climate-control thought? How about windmills? If the country really threw itself into wind power, we could, er, breeze toward our goals on that alone. Wind turbines are clean, they work well in places like the plains states that are flat and in need of economic development. And you can put them way out in the water and still get all the energy you need. “So far offshore you wouldn’t be able to see them from Mar-a-Lago,” said Scott Faber of the Environmental Working Group.Actually, we don’t care about Mar-a-Lago. One of the other nice things about wind power is that Scotland put a turbine across from one of Donald Trump’s golf courses, and he’s hated the idea ever since. Although his real problem is that wind can replace coal, which is one of our president’s favorite things in the entire world. “A tremendous form of energy in the sense that in a military way — think of it — coal is indestructible,” he babbled last year, as he announced an end to President Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan.Go wind! Ocasio-Cortez — who once headlined a clean energy sit-in at Nancy Pelosi’s office — could certainly lead a march of several hundred little kids carrying windmills and chanting: “Blow away climate change!”And, of course, we’d want to throw in solar power. Very efficient, very clean and Donald Trump hates that, too.Much more of a conversation-starter than the Green New Deal, which is great but way more complicated. For instance, it calls for more investment in high-speed rail just when the governor of California is basically throwing in the towel on the dream of a high-speed rail service from San Francisco to Los Angeles. (“There simply isn’t a path. … I wish there were.”)Green also included a gabby, rather unfortunate memo that explained the goal of zero greenhouse gas emissions in 10 years had to be tweaked a bit because “we aren’t sure that we will be able to fully get rid of, for example, emissions from cows or air travel before then.”The memo — which seemed to have been accidentally released — was taken down, but Republicans demanded that it be discussed in endless detail. Senator Cotton claimed that the media, by failing to continue obsessing over it, was “complicit in the Stalin-like or 1984 technique of disappearing it, sending it down the memory hole.” (Truly, there is almost nothing he doesn’t like that won’t get compared to Stalin or Nazism. At the very beginning of his maiden Senate speech, Cotton claimed limits in defense spending reminded him of how “Adolf Hitler had taken power in Germany.”)Trump loved the cows and planes angle. He told a rally in Texas that the Democrats wanted to “shut down a little thing called air travel!” This was at the same gathering when he wandered off on a rant about how German shepherds were better at sniffing out drugs than any technology. Calmer heads might have then proposed that we simply line the Mexican border with German shepherds, but instead the president just told the audience that he loved dogs and wished he could have one.We are mentioning this in order to point out that Donald Trump does not love dogs, has never had a dog, and in fact has apparently never had any pet, even a goldfish, his entire life.If the Democrats were as good as Republicans at making a huge issue out of something totally off the point, they would be spending the rest of the week discussing the president’s dislike of his first wife’s poodle.But we can talk about wind power instead. It’s lean, it’s practical, and extremely tweetable.RelatedMore on the Green New DealOpinionIs the Green New Deal a Leftist Fantasy?Feb. 14, 2019Opinion | Jedediah Britton-PurdyThe Green New Deal Is What Realistic Environmental Policy Looks LikeFeb. 14, 2019Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.
@GailCollins • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: The Answer
Is Blowin’
In The Wind. 

Was Paul Manafort’s Sentence Too Light? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Was Paul Manafort’s Sentence Too Light?AdvertisementSupported byWas Paul Manafort’s Sentence Too Light? ImageThe Albert V. Bryan United States Court House in Alexandria, Va., where Paul Manafort’s trial took place.CreditCreditErin Schaff for The New York TimesBy Shaila Dewan and Alan BlinderMarch 8, 2019A new round of anger and outcry came immediately when Paul Manafort, the former Trump campaign chairman, was sentenced Wednesday to three and a half years in prison, far less than the 10 he could have gotten. That was on top of less than four years in a separate but related case in which sentencing guidelines had recommended between 19 and 24 years. After Mr. Manafort’s punishment in the first case was announced, lawyers and advocates for leniency in sentencing guidelines flooded television and social media with examples of people who had been handed far longer prison terms for less serious crimes. In one widely circulated post on Twitter, Scott Hechinger, a public defender in Brooklyn, wrote: “For context on Manafort’s 47 months in prison, my client yesterday was offered 36-72 months in prison for stealing $100 worth of quarters from a residential laundry room.” In their attempts to add perspective, critics of current sentencing practices raise questions that resonate. Here are some answers. How does Mr. Manafort’s sentence compare with others given to white-collar criminals?About half of all federal sentences were below the guidelines in the 2017 fiscal year. One in five defendants received lower sentences that were not supported by the prosecution.In fraud cases, 43 percent were sentenced within the guidelines. Many of those who received lower sentences were being rewarded for providing “substantial assistance.” Prosecutors have said that Mr. Manafort lied to them and did not provide useful information. “How in the world can we make sense of the sentences that we have been handing down to the poor and to those people of color who didn’t have nearly the opportunities that Paul Manafort had to make an honest living?” said William N. Nettles, a former United States attorney in South Carolina. Mr. Nettles, an Obama administration appointee, added, “This is like sentencing disparity on steroids.”So does that mean Mr. Manafort’s sentence was too light?Maybe, said Marc Mauer, who oversees The Sentencing Project and is an expert in sentencing policy, race and the criminal justice system. “Or maybe the guidelines are overly harsh,” he said.Certainly there were plenty of examples of people who had done arguably less but gotten more time: Crystal Mason, a Texas woman who voted illegally, was sentenced to five years in prison. Juanita Peralta was serving a 15-year sentence in Oklahoma for drug possession when the departing governor, Mary Fallin, commuted her sentence. But such cases do as much to show how extreme the sentences are in the United States, which has by far the largest incarcerated population in the world, as they do to show how lightly Mr. Manafort was punished. In his case, the guidelines, which are no longer mandatory for judges, called for 19 to 24 years. “In a lot of countries you’d have to kill somebody to get anywhere close to that, yet we hand out 20-year sentences for drug crimes every day of the week,” Mr. Mauer said.Much research shows that it is not the severity of the punishment but the likelihood of getting caught that deters crime, so devoting more resources to prosecuting white-collar cases would send a stronger message than handing down a longer sentence, Mr. Mauer said. John Pfaff, a law professor at Fordham University, said every defendant should be treated like a rich white man. Research shows that sentences tend to become lighter when those who mete them out are better able to empathize with the defendant. “What do elite policymakers think the right sentence ought to be? It’s this,” Mr. Pfaff said. “We should use that as the baseline.”Judges are supposed to sentence based on a variety of considerations, including criminal history and the severity of the crime, but also the health of the defendant — Mr. Manafort, 69, has gout — their life circumstances and other factors. How often do judges override sentencing guidelines?In federal sentences, about half the time, usually with the government’s blessing. The federal sentencing guidelines first emerged, in part, because of concerns that white-collar offenders were not receiving harsh enough penalties.But some sentencing experts cautioned Friday that public expectations for Mr. Manafort’s punishment might have been artificially high. “It is a high-loss amount fraud case, and in those cases, your guidelines sentence can climb very rapidly,” said Rachel E. Barkow, a former member of the United States Sentencing Commission. “That’s the point at which many judges depart, and depart more significantly.”Ms. Barkow, a law professor at New York University, said she had expected Mr. Manafort’s penalty to fall below the sentencing guidelines, but she said the “extent of the departure was bigger than I would have guessed.”“This would be a much steeper reduction than we would see,” she said.Similar reactions appeared on social media.Is there a racial disparity in sentencing?African-American men fare far worse when being punished. According to data published by the United States Sentencing Commission in 2017, black men who commit the same crimes as white men receive federal sentences that are almost 20 percent longer on average.In most cases, judges follow the guidelines, said Paul Butler, a former federal prosecutor who is now a law professor at Georgetown. But Mr. Butler said that judges are much more likely to break lower for a white defendant.“Prosecutors share some of the responsibility,” he said. “Prosecutors have more control over the outcome of the case because it’s all about the decision to prosecute, and what to prosecute them for.” Data shows that prosecutors are significantly tougher on black and Latino defendants, he said.RelatedOpinion | Cristian FariasThe Daintiest Slap on Paul Manafort’s WristMarch 8, 2019Paul Manafort Is Sentenced to Less Than 4 Years in 1 of 2 Cases Against HimMarch 7, 2019Adeel Hassan and Julie Bosman contributed reporting.Shaila Dewan is a national reporter and editor covering criminal justice issues including prosecution, policing and incarceration.
@shailadewan Alan Blinder is a national correspondent based in the Atlanta bureau. With a primary focus on his native South, he has reported from more than two dozen states since joining The Times in 2013.
@alanblinder A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Prison Term That Was Below the Guidelines, but Not That Unusual. 

Opinion | Surprise! It’s Not Guns, It’s the … - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Surprise! It’s Not Guns, It’s the …AdvertisementOpinionSupported bySurprise! It’s Not Guns, It’s the …You’ll never guess why we have so much shooting.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistFeb. 8, 2019ImageThousands of people took part in the March for Our Lives protest in Parkland, Fla., a month after the school shooting there a year ago.CreditCreditSaul Martinez for The New York TimesPerhaps you missed it, but this week the House of Representatives held its first hearing on gun violence in eight years.I know, I know. You’ve had a lot to keep track of, what with everything from the meltdown in Virginia to Jeff Bezos’ selfies.But about the hearing. Testimony centered on a bill that would make it harder for people to buy guns without thorough background checks. Supporters pointed out that right now it’s ridiculously easy to get lethal weapons from an unlicensed seller who is not going to check to see if said purchaser might have a record of violence, stalking or involuntary commitment for mental illness.Amazing, right?Opponents hugged the Second Amendment and argued that the real reason we have so many deaths by gunfire is … Well, guess:A) GunsB) BulletsC) ImmigrantsYes! Are we living in the age of Trump or what?“I hope we do not forget the pain and anguish and sense of loss felt by those all over the country who have been the victims of violence at the hands of illegal aliens,” said Representative Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican who read a short list of people who had been shot by undocumented immigrants. Better background checks, he contended, “would not have stopped many of the circumstances I raised, but a wall, a barrier on the southern border may have, and that’s what we’re fighting for.”Is there anything that the wall wouldn’t solve? Nearly 40,000 Americans died in gun violence in 2017, the last year for which we have records. But if only there’d been a huge concrete slab dividing us from Mexico, they’d be fine.There are a lot of lawmakers prepared to say almost anything, no matter how nutty, in their role as worker bees for the National Rifle Association. But it was sort of surprising that the lead ranter was from Florida.ImageRepresentative Matt Gaetz would rather focus on undocumented immigrants than unchecked gun violence.CreditJose Luis Magana/Associated PressNext week we’ll be recalling the first anniversary of the Parkland high school shootings in which one student with a gun took the lives of 17 people. We just passed the second anniversary of the fatal shooting of five people in the baggage claim area of the Fort Lauderdale airport. Which came six months after 49 people were shot to death at a nightclub in Orlando. And it was just a couple of weeks ago that a young man walked into a bank in Sebring, Fla., pulled out a pistol, forced five women to lie on the ground and shot each one in the back of the head.All in Congressman Gaetz’s state. All the gunmen were native-born Americans. Perhaps Gaetz feels the border situation was sending dangerous vibes across the Gulf of Mexico and spurring them on.Americans are very, very strongly in favor of good background checks, and it does seem likely this bill will pass the newly Democratic House. Beyond minor technical fixes, that’ll be the first time either chamber has done anything about the issue of gun violence in years.Oh, wait. In 2017 the House and Senate got together and revoked an Obama-era regulation that had made it harder for mentally ill people to purchase a gun.It’s highly unlikely the background check bill will make it into law. “Color me unclear as to how we get Mitch McConnell to bring it up in the Senate,” said Chris Murphy of Connecticut, one of the Senate sponsors.Sigh. All you can do is keep on trying. It may not make the laws any better, but at least it’ll remind the public that some people in power are worried.We have terrible gun problems in this country not just because firearms are all over the place, but also because of the careless, stupid attitude so many people have toward them.Partly, I blame Congress. (Hey, it’s better than blaming a shortage of steel slat barriers.) Senator Murphy believes the endless rejection of any gun legislation looks like a kind of “moral green light” to potential killers: “I truly believe these young men who have something very dark happening in their minds watch our silence and interpret it as an endorsement.”It certainly helps perpetuate the attitude that guns are a casual part of everyday life, like your wallet or socks — something you wear when you go out to buy a loaf of bread, leave lying around the house and treat in general with less care and discretion than a light bulb.Last year safety inspectors at American airports found 4,239 firearms in passengers’ carry-on bags — almost all of them loaded and a third with a bullet already in the chamber. While a few of those people may have been plotting a crime, it’s pretty clear the vast majority were just incredibly careless with lethal weapons.This is the kind of thinking that gives us endless mayhem involving violent, semi-deranged young men who just grab one of the family guns and mow down five people in a bar. Toddlers who shoot themselves when they stumble across a gun that Dad or Granddad left sitting on the bed. Or find a rifle in the back seat of the car and accidentally kill Mom while she’s pulling into the preschool parking lot.We hear stories like that every day. Obviously, it’s all because of those caravans of immigrants coming to the border.RelatedOpinion | Tim KreiderGo Ahead, Millennials, Destroy UsWhenever you disapprove of young people, you’re in the wrong, because you’re going to die and they’ll get to write history.March 2, 2018OpinionHow to Reduce ShootingsWe could bring down the death toll caused by guns if we are smarter about how we regulate them.Nov. 6, 2017Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.
@GailCollins • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Surprise! It’s Not Guns,
It’s the …. 

Hey, Governor, What Are You Wearing? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexFashionSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperFashion|Hey, Governor, What Are You Wearing?AdvertisementSupported byunbuttonedHey, Governor, What Are You Wearing?J.B. Pritzker, the governor of Illinois, gets daily dress code recommendations, and he’s not alone. Welcome to the latest sign of the times.By Vanessa FriedmanApril 1, 2019ImageGov. J.B. Pritzker, center, with Bill Hadley, the Stephenson County board chairman, right, and Pastor Antwon Funches of St. Paul Missionary Baptist Church, left, during a stop to survey flood damage in Freeport, Ill.CreditScott P. Yates/Rockford Register Star, via Associated PressThe news that Anna Sorokin, the New York “party girl grifter” whose story has fascinated society and Hollywood and who is on trial in Manhattan Supreme Court, has been advised by a stylist on what to wear for her courtroom appearances should not really come as a surprise to anyone. Increasingly, it seems, there is a tendency to rely on experts to help navigate the thorny issues of what to wear when, and not just for highly fraught events.Consider, for example, the recent reports that J.B. Pritzker, the governor of Illinois, has daily notations on his official schedule related to dress. Or rather, how to dress for different occasions. This has gotten less attention than Ms. Sorokin’s news has (he is, to be fair, a somewhat less sensationalist figure), but in many ways it is a similarly revealing sign of the times.According to John O’Connor of The Associated Press, who used the Freedom of Information Act to get access to the governor’s schedule during the first six weeks of his term, there were more than 70 written recommendations regarding what the governor should wear to various planned events. The advice included when to bring multiple tie choices (for his official photo; he went with marine blue with white polka dots), when to forget the tie altogether, as well as what occasions were best for the “polo with Columbia jacket.”At first, like Mr. O’Connor, I thought this was unusual. Governor Pritzker, after all, has been a businessman and philanthropist, and presumably knows how to dress for the office. So I called Jordan Abudayyeh, Mr. Pritzker’s press secretary, to ask why it was necessary. She said the notations were “standard operating procedure” meant to make his life simpler and make sure he always looked appropriate. She did not have much else to add.Which is too bad, because Mr. Pritzker and his team are indeed far from alone in this particular strategy, though they may be taking it to a slightly more extreme level than most.According to Ryan Williams, a Republican strategist and former aide to Mitt Romney during Mr. Romney’s time as governor of Massachusetts and his two presidential campaigns, it was “not unusual” to jot down on the governor’s schedule whether the dress code for an event was “business, casual or black tie.” During the campaigns, this could be even more detailed, depending on the event. (A country barbecue, for example, might require more thought.) Donna Brazile, the onetime interim head of the Democratic National Committee and a recently signed Fox News contributor, said that in her experience such advice came from communications and advance teams and was “part of the message of the day.” Also, that it had become increasingly important and, perhaps, detailed.ImageGovernor Pritzker unveils his graduated income tax plan at the Illinois State Capitol.CreditJustin L. Fowler/The State Journal-Register, via Associated Press“Once upon a time, you had three dress codes: business, casual and formal,” she wrote in an email, noting that today candidates can dress to “signal everything from leadership style to their political branding” and hence need a certain amount of premeditation.Bennet Ratcliff, a former political consultant who worked with the Democratic Governors Association, pointed out that social media has exacerbated the situation. A politician is now dressing not just for the people in the room but also the people scrolling past a picture of said politician with the people in the room — and may be stopping to look or think.In that context, you can go one of two ways: adopt an effective uniform that communicates an attitude of formality in representing the job (see, for example, President Trump, who rarely appears in public without a jacket, and seems happiest in his oversize suits and below-the-belt red ties); or dress to fit in with the group you are with. In which case maybe you need a bit of help determining what that means.There is nothing wrong with this, or with thinking about this; it doesn’t reveal a superficiality or lack of substance, which is often the default fear when the topic of clothing comes up. On the contrary, it acknowledges the truth that we all make snap judgments based first on appearance, and then make a choice about how much time and brain space need to be devoted to influencing those judgments, and how much can be delegated.This should be something everyone can relate to, given the current craziness around dress codes in general, be it the complete nonsense of events that request “creative dress” or “dress to impress” or the difficulty of corporate strictures on dressing “appropriately” in an office setting, a word so vague that it is practically meaningless. (Yes, Goldman Sachs, this means you.) To a certain extent, we are always in search of dress recommendations and instruction, as the social and professional codes of yesteryear have eroded under the increasing commingling of life and work, putting an end to unspoken uniforms. That’s why stylists and personal shoppers have become such a booming business, increasingly famous in their own right. In many ways, politics has been the most insulated of all professions, but clearly, even that is changing.(And really, if there is such a thing as a courtroom stylist, can a political stylist be far behind? This is essentially the role Meredith Koop played for Michelle Obama, though officially her job was general aide, and how Hervé Pierre functions for Melania Trump.)Mr. O’Connor of The Associated Press said that after he discovered the dress notations on Mr. Pritzker’s schedule, he asked to speak with the governor about the subject but to no avail (his email request received no response, which was, he said, a rarity in his experience). Frankly, I think Governor Pritzker missed a great opportunity. He would have done everyone a favor if, once the topic was on the table, he had embraced it. Imagine how liberating it would be if a politician, especially a male one, was secure enough to give an interview about the importance of dressing the part, and how useful it was to have someone thinking about that so he could use his time crafting policy, be it for flood management or health care?Especially because the question of public figures and what they wear and who helps decide that is bound to become more fraught during the coming Democratic primary, as the pressure to distinguish oneself will put more onus on crafting an identifiable image that stands apart while simultaneously standing for something. Arguably Beto O’Rourke has already proven himself to be working this angle, at least judging by his Vanity Fair cover and his skill at casting himself as the people’s pol.Though given that he hired a campaign manager only last week, chances are he is still styling himself.Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.
@VVFriedman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Is a Tie on This Governor’s Schedule?. 

Opinion | The Real Roots of ‘Black Capitalism’ - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Real Roots of ‘Black Capitalism’AdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Real Roots of ‘Black Capitalism’Nixon’s solution for racial ghettos was tax breaks and incentives, not economic justice.By Mehrsa BaradaranMs. Baradaran is the author of “The Color of Money: Black Banks and the Racial Wealth Gap.”March 31, 2019ImageCreditCreditPhoto illustration by Johanna GoodmanThe tax bill President Trump signed into law in 2017 created an “opportunity zones” program, the details of which will soon be finalized. The program will provide tax cuts to investors to spur development in “economically distressed” areas. Republicans and Democrats stretching back to the Nixon administration have tried ideas like this and failed. These failures are well known, but few know the cynical and racist origins of these programs.The neighborhoods labeled “opportunity zones” are “distressed” because of forced racial segregation backed by federal law — redlining, racial covenants, racist zoning policies and when necessary, bombs and mob violence. These areas were black ghettos. So how did they come to be called “opportunity zones?” The answer lies in “black capitalism,” a forgotten aspect of Richard Nixon’s Southern Strategy. Mr. Nixon's solution for racial ghettos was not economic justice, but tax breaks and incentives. This deft political move allowed him to secure the support of white Southerners and to oppose meaningful economic reforms proposed by black activists. You can see how clever that political diversion was by looking at the reforms that were not carried out. After the Civil Rights Act, black activists and their allies pushed the federal government for race-specific economic redress. The “whites only” signs were gone, but joblessness, dilapidated housing and intractable poverty remained. In 1967, blacks had one-fifth the wealth of white families.Yet a white majority opposed demands for reparations, integration and even equal resources for schools. Black protests ensued, which turned into a resistance movement and black ghettos erupted in violence. To many, it felt like a domestic war. During the last year of his administration, Lyndon B. Johnson assembled the Kerner Commission to study the riots. The report was scathing: “What white Americans have never fully understood — but what the Negro can never forget — is that white society is deeply implicated in the ghetto. White institutions created it, white institutions maintain it and white society condones it.”President Johnson’s parting legislation was the 1968 Fair Housing Act, which he described as the most important legislation of the civil rights package because it pushed officials to “affirmatively further fair housing,” meaning to integrate. Before the 1968 presidential election, the choices for reform seemed clear: housing integration, reparations or both. One Republican candidate, George Romney, called for an integration plan to loosen the “high-income white noose” of white suburbs around black ghettos. Several candidates presented reparations proposals, one of which, introduced in Congress with Republican sponsors, called for federal capital investment and Treasury financing to build up capital in the ghetto.Mr. Nixon, however, decided instead to ride the tide of white resentment into office. His top aide, John Ehrlichman, admitted that a “subliminal appeal to the anti-black voter was always present in Nixon’s statements and speeches.” Indeed, Mr. Nixon promised Southern Republicans that he would “lay off pro-Negro” efforts.To undermine meaningful economic reforms, Mr. Nixon adopted free-market rhetoric with a libertarian twist — with the assistance of Alan Greenspan, the Nixon campaign’s economic adviser (and future Federal Reserve chairman). Mr. Greenspan called the black protests “an attack upon America’s system of free enterprise and individual rights.” He argued that black rioters were wrong that white America exploited them and that it was erroneous to call the economic situation of the ghetto an “injustice.” Instead, capitalism was the “natural” cure for the ghetto. Mr. Nixon should “help Negroes help themselves.” Agreeing to demands for federal spending or reparations in the ghetto was anti-capitalist.That’s how Mr. Nixon gave us black capitalism. “Instead of government jobs and government housing and government welfare,” he said in a speech, “let government use its tax and credit policies,” to power “the greatest engine of progress ever developed in the history of man: American private enterprise.”While a generation of white Americans had gained wealth through discriminatory government-sponsored credit subsidies for student and mortgage loans, Mr. Nixon pointed blacks to the free market and wished them luck. Black capitalism was so politically appealing, every administration since Mr. Nixon’s has adopted it in some form. Black capitalism morphed into Ronald Reagan’s “enterprise zone” policy, Bill Clinton’s “new market tax credits,” and Barack Obama’s “promise zones.” But President Trump has doubled down. He promised that the opportunity zones will provide “massive incentives” that will “draw investment into neglected and underserved communities.” Instead of meaningful reforms, the ghetto would get entrepreneurs. It was entrepreneurs who leveraged subprime loans disproportionately targeted to black borrowers into profits — and helped produce the financial crisis that and wiped out 53 percent of the wealth of the black community. By 2009, 35 percent of black families had zero or negative wealth. And now the opportunity zone program is dangling tax cuts to the same class of private equity funds with promises of “opportunity” from other people’s distress.During the 1968 election, the Democratic nominee, Hubert Humphrey declared, “Talking about black capitalism without capital is just kiting political checks.” You can’t have black capitalism without capital. But this is exactly Mr. Nixon’s legacy.These programs fail because the benefits of capitalism always accrue to the owners of the capital, not to the people living in enterprise zones or promise zones. Using capitalism to fix the racial wealth gap will work only if there is a means to transfer capital, assets, wealth or housing.The communities would benefit through more jobs and development, but any rise in real estate value will go to people with the initial capital. And when the ghetto gentrifies, the longtime residents are often displaced. These residents do not own the land, and the newly created wealth benefits the investors and the gentrifiers.To fix distressed communities, we have to create solutions like Senator Elizabeth Warren’s housing bill, which is a good start at an integration plan. After all, “a ghetto can be improved in one way only,” James Baldwin said. “Out of existence.”Mehrsa Baradaran (@MehrsaBaradaran) is a professor of corporate law at the University of Georgia and author of “The Color of Money: Black Banks and the Racial Wealth Gap.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: The Roots of ‘Black Capitalism’. 

Opinion | Thank God for Canada! - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Thank God for Canada!AdvertisementOpinionSupported byThank God for Canada!Our boring neighbor is a moral leader of the free world.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistFeb. 6, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版ImageJessie Thomson, left, and Amany Alhadka, right, were among the countless Canadians who helped Syrian refugees acclimate to their new country.CreditCreditJustin Tang for The New York TimesAfter the Canadian foreign minister, Chrystia Freeland, tweeted concern about Saudi Arabia’s imprisoning of a women’s rights activist, the crown prince there seemed to go nuts.Saudi Arabia announced that it was expelling Canada’s ambassador, halting flights to Canada, ending purchases of Canadian wheat, recalling students from Canada and selling off Canadian assets. Did the United States or other Western countries stand up for an old friend and ally, Canada?Not a bit.“The United States doesn’t have to get involved,” Heather Nauert, then the State Department spokeswoman, told reporters.Yet Canada stuck to its principles. When a young Saudi woman, Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, fled to Bangkok last month and warned that she would be murdered by her family if she was forced home, it was Canada that again braved Saudi fury by accepting her.Freeland was at the airport to welcome Alqunun as a “very brave new Canadian.” And Prime Minister Justin Trudeau didn’t mince words, saying, “We’ll stand up for human rights and women’s rights around the world.”Canada may be one of the world’s more boring countries, as yawn-inspiring as sensible shoes — wake up, reader, I know you’re snoozing!— but it’s also emerging as a moral leader of the free world.There’s no one else. The United States under President Trump is on a nationalist tear. Britain’s leaders seem determined to drag their people over a Brexit precipice. France is distracted by protests. Germany is preparing for succession.So Canada is stepping up.During the worst of the Syrian refugee crisis, President Barack Obama admitted just 12,000 Syrians and provoked a furious backlash, including Trump’s Muslim ban. Canada accepted 40,000 Syrians, with Trudeau appearing at the airport to hand out winter coats to these new Canadians.All around the world, doors to refugees were clanging shut. But Canadians were so eager to sponsor Syrians that organizations were clamoring for more of them. Canadian politicians are mostly rewarded for showing compassion.[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nick’s gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]Trump gets headlines with his periodic threats to invade Venezuela to topple President Nicolás Maduro, but Canada has been quietly working since 2017 to help organize the Lima Group of 14 nations pushing for democracy in Venezuela. When Canada recognized the opposition leader Juan Guaidó as interim president, he won credibility because nobody sees Ottawa as an imperialist conspirator.Canada has spoken up about the mass detention of about one million Muslims in the Xinjiang region of China even as Muslim countries have mostly kept mum, and it detained a Chinese executive at the request of the American government. China retaliated by arresting Canadians and sentencing one to death, but Canada is sticking to its guns — even as Trump undercut Canada by suggesting that the case against the executive might be dropped for political reasons.For aid programs in the developing world, countries usually try to finance big, glamorous projects that will get lots of attention. Instead, Canada champions programs that are extremely cost-effective but so deathly boring that they will never be discussed on TV — initiatives like iodizing salt to prevent mental impairment.Reader! Wake up!Still, Canadians can be devious. A couple of years ago I sought an interview with Trudeau for a piece about Canada’s successes — and he kept stalling. Aides explained that praise from an American might damage his relations with Trump. That may have been the first time I’ve had a leader resist laudatory coverage.Whenever I say something nice about Canada, I get indignant emails from Canadian friends pointing out the country’s shortcomings (which are real). Fortunately, Canadians don’t seem capable of mean emails. Not even of mean tweets. One study found that Americans’ tweets are loaded with curses and words like “hate”: Canadians’ tweets are larded with “awesome,” “amazing” and “great.”(Note: Ignore all the bits about Canadians being nice when playing hockey with them. In the rink, they’re brutes.)Off the ice, Canadians pursue policies that are preternaturally sensible. Canadians regulate guns, oversee the banking sector so as to avoid financial crashes, and nurture entrepreneurship and economic growth without enormous inequality.Read More About Canada Leading the WayOpinion | Nicholas KristofCanada, Leading the Free WorldFeb. 4, 2017Refugees WelcomeDec. 23, 2016Typically, more Canadians use mass transit, and the country has better traffic safety laws, so that the vehicle fatality rate there is half that of the United States’. If the United States had Canada’s traffic death rate, we would save more than 20,000 American lives a year.Today there’s a vacuum of constructive global leadership. Canada may be incapable of a mean tweet, but it’s tough when necessary — and it may be the leader the world needs. *I’m delighted to announce that the winner of my 2019 win-a-trip contest, to take a university student with me on a reporting trip, is Mia Armstrong of Arizona State University. The runner-up is Riley Robinson of Northeastern University. Thanks to all who applied and to the Center for Global Development in Washington for helping screen applicants. Mia and I may report from Guatemala or Haiti, and perhaps from American Indian reservations.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur. You can sign up for his free, twice-weekly email newsletter and follow him on Instagram.
@NickKristof • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: Thank God For Canada!. 

Grindr Is Owned by a Chinese Firm, and the U.S. Is Trying to Force It to Sell - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Grindr Is Owned by a Chinese Firm, and the U.S. Is Trying to Force It to SellAdvertisementSupported byGrindr Is Owned by a Chinese Firm, and the U.S. Is Trying to Force It to SellImageGrindr, the gay dating app, is owned by a Chinese company.CreditCreditLeon Neal/Getty ImagesBy David E. SangerMarch 28, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is expanding its efforts to block Chinese acquisitions in the United States, moving to force a Chinese firm that owns Grindr, the gay dating app, to relinquish control over concerns that Beijing could use personal information to blackmail or influence American officials, according to people familiar with the situation.The action, which is being driven by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, is unusual given that the panel typically investigates mergers that could result in control of an American business by a foreign individual or company, judging whether deals could threaten national security. This appears to be the first case in which the United States has asserted that foreign control of a social media app could have national security implications.The administration has not announced the move, which will require that Grindr be sold, or explained it. But officials familiar with the case, which was first reported by Reuters, say the concern focused on the potential for the blackmail of American officials or contractors, if China threatened to disclose their sexual orientation, or track their movements or dating habits.Three years ago, a Chinese firm that owns both gaming and credit services businesses, Beijing Kunlun Tech Co. Ltd., a public company listed on the Shenzhen stock exchange, bought a 60 percent stake in Grindr, which is based in West Hollywood, Calif., for $93 million. Early last year, it bought the remaining shares for a little over $150 million.While there were news reports about both transactions, the United States did not take action to block the acquisitions. Since then, the United States’ definition of national security threats has expanded, in part over concerns by the Trump administration and lawmakers about China’s ability to gain access to critical American technology.It is unclear why the panel, known as Cfius, acted now, more than three years after control of the company switched to Chinese hands. And so far, there is no public evidence that any information on the app has been used by the Chinese government.But Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said he, along with several other senators, asked Cfius to conduct a review.“Last year, my office met with a top official from the Treasury Department to express my serious concerns about the national security risks associated with a Chinese company buying Grindr,” he said in a statement. While he said he could not “confirm specific actions by Cfius,” a highly secretive panel, “it is high time for the administration and Cfius to consider the national security impact of foreign companies acquiring large, sensitive troves of Americans’ private data.”Congress handed more power to the panel last year, allowing it to examine transactions that fell short of majority control of a company and involved just minority stakes. The expansion was an effort to counter Chinese minority investments in Silicon Valley companies that gave investors an early look at emerging technologies.The Kunlun purchases had never been submitted to Cfius, giving the government the leverage to go back in after the sale to try to force a divestment. Calls to Kunlun’s office number were not answered, and emails seeking comment were not returned.Grindr has already faced questions about its control and use of personal data. The company faced a huge backlash for sharing users’ H.I.V. status, sexual tastes and other intimate personal details with outside software vendors. After the data sharing was made public by European researchers in 2018, the company said it would stop sharing H.I.V. data with outside companies.Last year was the first time Cfius appeared to be concerned about the purchase of companies that contained sensitive data. The government killed a proposed merger last year between MoneyGram, the money transfer firm, and Ant Financial, a payments company related to the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba.The United States has also embarked on a global campaign to block a big Chinese telecom equipment giant, Huawei, from building the next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G, over concerns that it could divert critical data through China, or be forced to turn over data running through its networks to Beijing. The White House has essentially accused Huawei of being an arm of the Chinese government that can be used for spying or to sabotage communications networks, a charge that Huawei has vehemently denied.But the administration’s efforts to control what kind of personal data is available to China’s intelligence services may have come too late. China’s ministry of state security and other Chinese groups have already been accused of successfully stealing personal data from American databases.The theft of 22 million security clearance files from the Office of Personnel Management in 2014, along with similar theft of data from the Anthem insurance networks and Marriott hotels, have all been attributed to Chinese actors by American intelligence officials, who say they were most likely operating on behalf of the government.The files stolen in the 2014 government breach contain far more personal data than the Chinese could probably find on any individual social media site: They include work history on sensitive United States projects, information about bankruptcies, medical conditions, relationship histories, and any contacts with foreigners. The loss of the information forced the C.I.A. to reassign personnel headed to China, and was considered among the largest losses of sensitive security information in decades. The Obama administration declined to publicly concede that the breach was committed by Chinese intelligence services.China has taken steps of its own to limit foreign companies’ access to its citizens’ personal information. A recently enacted cybersecurity law mandates that user data be stored in the country, where it can be kept under the government’s control. In response to the law, Apple said it would open its first data center in China, and formed a partnership with a Chinese company to run the center and handle data requests from the government.Before the law even came into effect, the Chinese government had pressured foreign technology companies to operate servers only within its borders — meaning the data is available to Chinese authorities under Chinese law. Amazon and Microsoft have partnered with Chinese firms to offer cloud computing services to Chinese customers.The United States has also pressed China to allow insurance companies and other American firms that control personal data to enter the Chinese market, a demand that goes back nearly two decades. China has agreed to do so, and that agreement is expected to be part of the larger trade deal being negotiated between American and Chinese negotiators.But the Grindr case could give the Chinese government an excuse to make its own national security claims if American firms sought to purchase a Chinese insurance company, or any of its social media firms.Raymond Zhong contributed reporting from Shenzhen, and Michael J. de la Merced from London. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Is Seeking to Force China to Sell Dating App. 

Opinion | Meet Trump’s Worst! - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Meet Trump’s Worst!AdvertisementOpinionSupported byMeet Trump’s Worst!Who’s champion of the race to the bottom?By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistFeb. 6, 2019ImageEven in the Trump cabinet, Wilbur Ross is outstanding (but he should watch his back). CreditCreditChip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesThe votes are in, and the winner of the Worst Trump Cabinet Member competition is …Wilbur Ross!First time a secretary of commerce has ever won the title. Don’t let me hear you complaining that this administration hasn’t accomplished anything.The Ross victory is a little suspect, since it came right after he gave an interview in which he expressed befuddlement about why furloughed government workers were going to food banks and homeless shelters when they could — you know, just go see their banker and take out a loan.Do you think he was making a play for first place? Nah, that was just Wilbur being Wilbur, the guy who happily marveled that when Donald Trump visited Saudi Arabia “there was not a single hint of a protester anywhere.” When reminded that the Saudi government has a way of making protesters disappear, Ross admitted “in theory that could be true” but quickly added, “there was certainly no sign of it.”Until then Ross’s biggest claim to cabinet fame was perhaps his habit of falling asleep at meetings. Hey, the man is 81. Give him a break.Coming in a close second was Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen, followed by that perennial favorite, Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos.Nielsen, who one reader called “the queen of mendacity,” got votes for her work separating thousands of families at the Mexican border. The Trump immigration policies were on so many people’s minds, they put Stephen Miller in fourth place even though he’s not actually in the cabinet.Miller, a 33-year-old senior adviser to the president, is a longtime enemy of bipartisan immigration reform who’s a chief architect of Trump’s wall-mania. So it’s sort of pleasant to mention, just for the heck of it, that lately Miller’s seemed to be trying to fight premature balding by spraying some kind of black stuff on the top of his head.Our voting results are not entirely scientific, given readers’ demand to be able to vote for two, three or 12 different contenders. (“Why not give it to them all? My daughter played softball and everybody got a trophy.”)DeVos, a former Worst Cabinet Member winner, has faded a bit as her ineffectiveness appeared to mitigate some of her bad intentions. Nevertheless, it’s clear our readers have been keeping an eagle eye on what she’s been up to, however fumbling the effort. One voter cited “her disinterest in addressing the national student debt crisis; her support of private institutions’ shady loan practices; her bungling of college campus sex policy; her complete lack of knowledge and interest in classroom achievement.” And that was just the first part of the letter.Other high-rankers in the Worst contest were Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. Some readers mentioned Pompeo’s cheerful visit to Saudi Arabia that was highlighted by “his boys-will-be-boys willingness to overlook the savage murder of Saudi Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi.”Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson got quite a few votes despite a certain lack of, um, public presence. (“What happened to Ben Carson? No, seriously. What happened to him? Did he fall asleep in a chair somewhere? Did he ever get out of that elevator?”)Ditto Secretary of Energy Rick Perry, whose most notable recent achievement was being the cabinet member who stayed away from the State of the Union address so he could run the country if everybody else got assassinated.We do not want to pursue this thought for any number of reasons.There were virtually no votes for either the head of the Department of Interior or the Environmental Protection Agency. Ryan Zinke and Scott Pruitt were big Worst contenders in the past, but they’re gone now, thrown into the darkness for various embarrassments along the line of super-expensive trips on the public dime and, in Pruitt’s case, telling an aide to inquire about purchasing an old mattress from a Trump hotel.Now Trump has announced that he’s nominating David Bernhardt to be his new secretary of the Interior. Bernhardt is a former oil lobbyist whose biggest interest in public lands appears to involve drilling on them. I’ll bet we hear a lot more of him next time around.The list goes on and on. There’s hardly a cabinet member who doesn’t seem to be driving readers crazy. Some of them are losing sleep over the fact that Senator Mitch McConnell’s wife, Elaine Chao, is running the Department of Transportation while her family runs an international shipping company. (“I’m not convinced she would win a prize — there are so many corrupt contenders. But she might get a (dis)honorable mention.”) Chao is also a big fan of privatizing things — including the Federal Aviation Administration.Truly, we should give a shout-out to Donald Trump for creating such a memorable bunch of top officials. “I have followed politics a very long time … and this is the first time I can actually name more than one or two cabinet people from memory, because they are so freaking dangerously bad,” moaned one reader.Think about it. How many members of the Obama cabinet can you recall? Even when George W. Bush was hanging out with Dick Cheney, did you know who was running the Department of Commerce?At least we’re all paying attention.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.
@GailCollins • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: Meet Trump’s Worst!. 

Andrew Marshall, Pentagon’s Threat Expert, Dies at 97 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Andrew Marshall, Pentagon’s Threat Expert, Dies at 97AdvertisementSupported byAndrew Marshall, Pentagon’s Threat Expert, Dies at 97ImageAndrew Marshall in 2018. He ran the Pentagon office concerned with future threats for more than four decades, becoming a repository of strategic thinking for numerous administrations.CreditCreditLexey SwallBy Julian E. BarnesMarch 26, 2019WASHINGTON — Andrew Marshall, a Pentagon strategist who helped shape American military thinking on the Soviet Union, China and other global competitors for more than four decades, died on Tuesday in Alexandria, Va. He was 97.His death was confirmed by Jaymie Durnan, his executor.Mr. Marshall, as director of the Office of Net Assessment, was the secretive futurist of the Pentagon, a long-range thinker who both prodded and inspired secretaries of defense and high-level policymakers. Virtually unknown among the wider public, he came to be revered inside the Defense Department as a mysterious Yoda-like figure who embodied an exceptionally long institutional memory.In the early 2000s, at a time when the Pentagon was focused on counterinsurgency and wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, Mr. Marshall urged officials to focus on the challenge of China — a view that many considered outdated. But today, national security officials are increasingly adopting Mr. Marshall’s view of China as a potential strategic adversary, an idea now at the heart of national defense strategy.Through his many hires and generous Pentagon grants, estimated to total more than $400 million over four decades, Mr. Marshall trained a coterie of experts and strategists in Washington and beyond. One veteran of the office, Air Force Gen. Paul Selva, is now the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Another, Robert O. Work, was the deputy secretary of defense from 2014 to 2017.The exact nature of Mr. Marshall’s office was poorly understood. But he cultivated thinking that looked beyond the nation’s immediate problems and sought to press military leaders to approach long-term challenges differently.“His gift was the framing of the question, the discovery of the critical question,” said Michael Pillsbury, a China expert who advised and worked with Mr. Marshall throughout his career. “He would always pick the least studied and most strategically significant subjects.”Mr. Marshall’s career as a strategic thinker began in 1949 at the RAND Corporation, where his theory of competitive strategies took root. Borrowing from business school theories of how corporations compete against each other, Mr. Marshall argued that nations are also in strategic competition with one another.“His favorite example was if you can pit your strengths against someone else’s weakness and get them to respond in a way that makes them weaker and weaker, you can put them out of business without ever fighting,” said Henry Sokolski, a strategist who worked with Mr. Marshall.Recruited by Henry A. Kissinger, President Richard M. Nixon’s national security adviser, Mr. Marshall joined the National Security Council as an analyst in 1972. He formed the Office of Net Assessment the next year, and began studying Soviet military strength.He and the strategists he brought into the office came to believe that the Central Intelligence Agency had erred in its estimates of military spending by the Soviet Union and of the strength of the Soviet economy. He believed that Moscow was devoting a far greater percentage of economic output to the military than the C.I.A. had thought, and that therefore it would be unable to keep pace with the American economy. The Soviet collapse in 1991 proved him right.“He had early insight into the economic troubles the Soviet Union was having, and helped develop strategies to exacerbate those problems and help bring about the demise of the Soviet Union,” said Andrew May, a strategist at the office and a collaborator with Mr. Marshall for decades.Andrew Walter Marshall was born on Aug. 13, 1921, in Detroit to John and Katherine Marshall. He enrolled at Wayne State University in Detroit but left during World War II. Medically disqualified from serving in the military during the war, he instead went to work in an aircraft factory in Detroit. After the war he attended the University of Chicago, earning bachelor’s and master’s degrees in economics. He abandoned his Ph.D. studies to work at RAND.Mr. Marshall married Mary Katherine Speer, a fellow RAND employee, in 1953. She died in 2004. He later married Ann Wheeler Smith, who died in 2017. No immediate family members survive.Not all policymakers were enamored with the long-range focus of Mr. Marshall’s Office of Net Assessment. Critics said it had missed big trends like cyberwarfare and had wrongly ignored the kind of terrorism threats that the United States faced early in the 21st century.Mr. Marshall’s defenders point out that the pathbreaking work he and his disciples did on military modernization had formed the pathway for Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld’s program to transform the military during George W. Bush’s administration, emphasizing lighter and nimbler forces that would form the backbone of American military power during the Obama administration.At the heart of Mr. Marshall’s work were highly classified reports called net assessments, about 24 of which were created from 1973 to 2015, when he retired several years into his 90s.Mr. Marshall kept the distribution of his assessments extremely limited. Few people have read more than one or two of them. Even secretaries of defense were not allowed to keep copies.The best of the assessments, according to people who have read them, compared Russian and Chinese strategies against American war plans, finding the weaknesses of the Pentagon’s approach and pushing for improvements. He urged the Pentagon to develop not single war plans but ones that would cover myriad scenarios.Mr. Marshall began focusing on China in the mid-1990s. He was the first Pentagon official to talk about an emerging great power competition with Beijing, an idea now embraced by Pentagon leadership.“His view was that because of the sheer size and potential economic weight” of China, it “could become a competitor over time,” General Selva said. “That proved to be a good question to ask, and that has started to play out.”In 2009, Robert M. Gates, the defense secretary at the time, asked Mr. Marshall to write a classified strategy on China with Gen. Jim Mattis, the future defense secretary.Mr. Marshall believed that American military planners had little understanding of what Chinese regional or global ambitions were. Deterring conflict in the future would be impossible if strategists were blind to the competition, he maintained.The study by Mr. Marshall and General Mattis helped speed the development of new undersea technologies, pushed Mr. Gates to make the B-21 bomber a priority and changed how the Pentagon conducted strategic war games, according to former officials.“He understood that becoming competitive again would take some hard work and unpopular moves,” Mr. May said. “But we needed to get back in that mind-set.”Kitty Bennett and Thom Shanker contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A24 of the New York edition with the headline: Andrew Marshall, 97, Pentagon Threat Expert Who Looked Beyond the Immediate. 

Fred Malek, 82, Republican Fund-Raiser and Presidential Adviser, Dies - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexObituariesSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperObituaries|Fred Malek, 82, Republican Fund-Raiser and Presidential Adviser, DiesAdvertisementSupported byFred Malek, 82, Republican Fund-Raiser and Presidential Adviser, DiesImageFred Malek at his home in McLean, Va., in 2014. He served Republican presidents, raised money for the party and ran businesses. He was also a major donor to his alma mater, the United States Military Academy at West Point.CreditCreditKatherine Frey/The Washington Post, via Getty ImagesBy Katharine Q. SeelyeMarch 27, 2019Fred Malek, a major Republican fund-raiser and adviser to several presidents who also had a business career that included a stint as president of Marriott Hotels, died on Sunday in Virginia. He was 82.The American Action Network, a conservative advocacy group that Mr. Malek co-founded, announced the death. His family said he died of complications of an infection after hip surgery.Mr. Malek built up a wide-ranging political, corporate and philanthropic portfolio. It included running Northwest Airlines, serving as a power broker for the Republican Party and becoming a major benefactor to his alma mater, the United States Military Academy at West Point.Mr. Malek, who often appeared on cable talk programs, was friendly with several Republican presidents. He served in the administrations of Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford, Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush.He was an owner of the Texas Rangers with George W. Bush and others before Mr. Bush became president. He did not work for Donald J. Trump, but President Trump appointed him chairman of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a research group.Mr. Malek’s initial foray into presidential politics came during the Nixon administration, when he was deputy under secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. He was later a driving force behind the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum, raising $25 million for its construction.Nixon’s daughters, Tricia Nixon Cox and Julie Nixon Eisenhower, said in a statement, “Fred did more for our father’s legacy than anyone else in recent memory.”But his association with Nixon would leave a stain on his own legacy.In July 1971, the president was furious when the Bureau of Labor Statistics attributed a drop in the unemployment rate to a statistical quirk rather than to administration policies. According to news accounts as well as the Nixon archives, the president believed that a “Jewish cabal” was trying to sabotage him politically.And so he instructed Mr. Malek, then the White House personnel chief, to count the number of Jews in the labor bureau.Mr. Malek refused four times to do so, but finally relented. Guessing who was Jewish based on their last names, he sent the president a letter saying that 13 of 35 top employees were. The letter’s existence remained unknown for 17 years.In 1988, The Washington Post reported on the letter and indicated that it had resulted in the demotions of at least two Jewish officials.Mr. Malek, who had gone on to serve as deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget under both Nixon and Ford in the 1970s, said he had nothing to do with the demotions.“I would have found it offensive and morally unacceptable, and I would have refused,” he was quoted as saying.At the time, in 1988, he was deputy chairman of the Republican National Committee and a high-level adviser to Vice President Bush, who was running for president. He resigned from the committee when the story broke. Slate subsequently reported that a White House memo showed that Mr. Malek had, in fact, known about the demotions.ImageMr. Malek with President Richard M. Nixon, the first of several presidents he served, in 1971. Years later Mr. Malek expressed remorse and apologized when it was revealed that he had supplied Nixon with a list of Jews at the Bureau of Labor Statistics.CreditRichard Nixon FoundationHe was remorseful, apologized many times, insisted he was not anti-Semitic and committed himself to fighting anti-Semitism, earning the support of some Jewish leaders. While the matter did not appear to interfere with his business pursuits or political activities, it was often raised by the news media whenever he began a new venture.Perhaps Mr. Malek’s most prodigious political work was in the service of the Republican Governors Association. From 2008 to this year, he revitalized that organization and helped transform it into a political juggernaut. At his death, he was still its finance chairman.The party was in a slump in 2008 after Senator John McCain, for whom Mr. Malek had served as national finance chairman, lost the presidential race to Barack Obama.“He saw that the way to rebuild the Republican Party was not through Washington but by helping to elect Republican governors in the state capitals,” Pete Snyder, a Virginia businessman and friend of Mr. Malek’s, said in a telephone interview.Bringing his business savvy to politics, Mr. Malek created an “executive round table,” which offered high-level donors the chance to mingle with V.I.P.s, among other perks. Mr. Snyder, a round table member, said the money went toward recruiting and financing candidates for governor across the country.The association vastly outraised its Democratic counterpart and enjoyed unparalleled success. Between 2008 and 2018, Mr. Malek raised $312 million through the round table and helped elect a total of 84 Republican governors, said David Rexrode, executive director of the governors association.Over the last decade, the number of Republican governors rose to 33, up from 19 in 2008.Frederic Vincent Malek was born on Dec. 22, 1936, in Berwyn, Ill., outside Chicago. His mother, Martha (Smicklas) Malek, a homemaker, was of Yugoslavian descent; his father, Frederick, who was of Czech descent, drove a beer truck.Fred knew from an early age that he wanted to attend West Point. After graduating in 1959, he served in combat in Vietnam as a Ranger with the Army Special Forces.While on rest and recuperation in Hawaii, he met Marlene McArthur, whom he married in 1962. She survives him, as do their daughter, Michelle DuPont Olson; their son, Frederick W. Malek; five grandchildren; a brother, David; and a sister, Marci Anderson.Mr. Malek received a master of business administration degree from Harvard Business School in 1964 and went to work as a management consultant for McKinsey & Company. He joined the Marriott Corporation in 1975 and rose to president, holding that position until he left in 1988. During his tenure, and despite a recession, Marriott strongly outperformed its competitor hotel chains.In 1989 he became a senior adviser to the Carlyle Group, one of the nation’s most prestigious private equity firms.With a reputation for leveraged buyouts, Mr. Malek’s financial coups over the years included the acquisition of the Ritz Carlton Hotel Company, Northwest Airlines and Coldwell Banker, now CB Richard Ellis.He was also a significant donor to West Point, where his legacy includes the Malek Tennis Center; the Malek Soccer Stadium; the O’Meara, Malek, Dawkins, Class of ’59 Strength and Development Center; and the Frederic V. Malek West Point Visitors Center, which overlooks the Hudson River.He was so devoted to the academy that he named two of his businesses, Thayer Capital and Thayer Lodging Group Inc., after Sylvanus Thayer, known as the “father” of West Point.Mr. Malek was to be buried at the cemetery on the academy grounds.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: Fred Malek, 82, Adviser to Presidents. 

Kushner on Mideast Tour to Promote Investment Plan as Part of a Path Toward Peace - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Kushner on Mideast Tour to Promote Investment Plan as Part of a Path Toward PeaceAdvertisementSupported byKushner on Mideast Tour to Promote Investment Plan as Part of a Path Toward PeaceImageJared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law, this month during a cabinet meeting at the White House. His secret peace plan has generated much speculation in the Middle East.CreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesBy Peter BakerFeb. 26, 2019WASHINGTON — Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, is traveling this week through the Middle East to promote a plan to invest tens of billions of dollars in the Palestinian territories and Israel’s Arab neighbors as part of his long-promised peace initiative.Mr. Kushner, who has been working for two years on a blueprint for President Trump intended to resolve the decades-old dispute between Israel and the Palestinians, told leaders of Arab states that the economic plan would be critical to creating an environment in which the two sides could make the necessary political compromises.“What we have found is that all the conflict does is keep people from having the opportunity to do commerce and to have opportunity and improve their lives,” Mr. Kushner said in a rare interview with Sky News Arabia. “Hopefully, if we can resolve this issue, we will be able to see a lot more opportunity for the Palestinian people, for the Israeli people and the people throughout the region.”The White House publicly released no details of the economic component, but analysts who have followed its development said that they had been told it would involve investing around $25 billion in the West Bank and Gaza over 10 years and another $40 billion in Egypt, Jordan and perhaps Lebanon, depending on their performance meeting certain goals. Others who have spoken with Mr. Kushner disputed those specific figures, but agreed that it would involve tens of billions of dollars to those parts of the region.The bulk of the money would come from the region’s wealthiest states, and while the United States would contribute as well, it was not clear how much. In his trip this week, Mr. Kushner has visited the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Bahrain, and he plans to sit down on Wednesday with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Turkey. From there, he will head to Saudi Arabia and Qatar.While in Saudi Arabia, Mr. Kushner could meet with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for the first time since Saudi agents killed and dismembered Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi dissident and columnist for The Washington Post. American intelligence agencies have concluded that Prince Mohammed ordered the killing, but the Saudi government denies it, and Mr. Trump has resisted blaming the crown prince.Mr. Kushner, whose secret peace plan has generated enormous speculation in the region, said he would make it public sometime after Israeli elections scheduled for April 9. He has not said whether it would include a Palestinian state, and in the Sky News Arabia interview, he was vague about his vision.“The political plan, which is very detailed, is really about establishing borders and resolving final status issues,” he said. But then Mr. Kushner added, “The goal of resolving these borders is really to eliminate the borders. If you can eliminate borders and have peace and less fear of terror, you could have freer flow of goods, freer flow of people and that would create a lot more opportunities.”But if by eliminating borders Mr. Kushner means that the Palestinians would not get their own state, veteran diplomats said it would be unrealistic to expect them to give up their national aspirations in exchange for economic investment.“It’s going to be a very hard sell politically as well as economically,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former special envoy for Middle East peace under President Barack Obama. “If the bargain is we’ll put in $65 billion so you Palestinians and Arabs will back off your political demands for an independent state based on ’67 lines with East Jerusalem as its capital, I don’t think they’re going to raise the money to pay for it. The whole proposition appears to be based on false assumptions.”Indeed, King Salman of Saudi Arabia hosted President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority this week and declared that his country “permanently stands by Palestine and its people’s right to an independent state with East Jerusalem as its capital,” according to the official Saudi Press Agency.As it is, relations between Mr. Trump and the Palestinians have soured so much that the Palestinians have refused to meet officially with the Americans in more than a year. Mr. Trump ordered the American Embassy moved to Jerusalem, folded the consulate charged with dealing with the Palestinians into the embassy, closed the Palestinian office in Washington and cut aid to the Palestinians.Moreover, some longtime specialists in the region said the Persian Gulf states would be reluctant to finance Mr. Kushner’s economic plan without a substantial contribution by the United States. “Since there’s no public talk of a major American investment, Middle Easterners are unlikely to open their wallets without seeing what Washington is going to contribute,” said Robert Satloff, the executive director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.Dennis B. Ross, a longtime Middle East negotiator for several presidents, said Mr. Kushner is right to believe that without an economic component, any political understanding may not be sustainable. But an eventual peace plan has to include enough political concessions to entice both sides, as well.“The Palestinians are conveying to the Arabs that this is an effort to buy them off to give up their national aspirations — and that will require the political part of the plan to look more credible on statehood and Jerusalem for the Arabs,” Mr. Ross said.As for Israel, the country’s leadership is now up for grabs as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, a close ally of Mr. Trump’s, tries to fend off a possible corruption indictment and a newly formed opposition coalition in the coming elections.Mr. Kushner’s trip invariably became fodder on the campaign trail as Naftali Bennett, a leader of a party to the right of Mr. Netanyahu, suggested that the prime minister would cut a deal with Mr. Trump creating a Palestinian state and dividing Jerusalem after the election. Mr. Netanyahu fired back, saying that was “unfounded.” Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Kushner Tours Mideast to Promote Investment Plan as Part of Peace Effort. 

‘Florida Is Tired of Being a Cheap Date’: Andrew Gillum Wants to Help Democrats Win in 2020 - The New York Times
Politics|‘Florida Is Tired of Being a Cheap Date’: Andrew Gillum Wants to Help Democrats Win in 2020ImageAndrew Gillum, the Democratic nominee for Florida governor in 2018, said he will not run for president in 2020.CreditCreditCharlotte Kesl for The New York TimesSectionsSkip to contentSkip to site index‘Florida Is Tired of Being a Cheap Date’: Andrew Gillum Wants to Help Democrats Win in 2020In an interview, the former mayor and rising Democratic star confirms he’s not running for president, and outlines his plans to mobilize Florida voters for the election.Andrew Gillum, the Democratic nominee for Florida governor in 2018, said he will not run for president in 2020.CreditCreditCharlotte Kesl for The New York TimesSupported byBy Astead W. HerndonMarch 20, 2019Andrew Gillum has more free time than he would like. After losing his bid for Florida’s governorship by less than one half of a percentage point, Mr. Gillum, the former Tallahassee mayor, is now carefully planning his next steps amid speculation that he would run for president. On Wednesday, he announced he will not join the Democratic field seeking to oppose President Trump, but instead return to political organizing. He said he aims to build a voter mobilization network in Florida that will help whoever becomes the Democratic Party’s nominee to capture the state’s all-important 29 electoral votes. Mr. Gillum spoke with The New York Times about why he’s confident Democrats can wrest Florida from Mr. Trump in 2020, what he hopes to see from the primary field, and how he grades the performance of the Republican who beat him last year, Gov. Ron DeSantis. The interview has been edited and condensed.
I heard your father recently passed and wanted to offer my condolences. That means a lot, I really appreciate it. How serious were you thinking about running for president? Did you give it real thought?Everybody has to consider what role they play in Trump’s America right now to bring this to an end. But for me, it was a pretty quick consideration. I had to put into focus that I’d spent the better part of two years running around the state of Florida and away from my three children and my wife. [Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 race.]If Beto O’Rourke can get into the presidential race, why not Stacey Abrams or Andrew Gillum? Is that a sign of privilege, as some have suggested? There’s no doubt that O’Rourke enjoys a set of privileges in his decision making that other candidates don’t. Can you imagine it for any of the women that are in the race for president or considering a run? They probably could not muse out loud, or in the recesses of their mind have these sorts of conversations and then say them out loud, and think it would be taken seriously or they would be taken seriously. I recognize that, but, as I understand it, the congressman also recognizes that there is privilege that accompanies him here. That doesn’t make him less deserving of consideration, it’s just something that has to be acknowledged. I think over the course of this race, we will — and America will — discover what Beto O’Rourke’s views are. And I think he’ll be measured on that. What’s the importance of this effort you’re announcing Wednesday? It’s Florida-specific, right? This is Florida-specific, but guess what — Florida-specific impacts the nation. Twenty-nine electoral voters answers a lot, and not just for the state, but for the country. My dad used to give me this advice a lot: “Son, when you know better, you do better.” And having just come from two years on the campaign trail, and having looked very critically at my own race, there’s some things I learned that I recognize that we can do better at.When Obama was on the ballot in 2008, Democrats enjoyed a registration advantage of almost 800,000. When I showed up on the ballot, that advantage had shrunk to less than 300,000. And it makes a difference, if you have more marbles on the table and more voters you can choose from and have the opportunity to produce. Given the migration patterns in our state, and given the challenges we have around producing an electorate that's favorable to Democrats to get out and vote — we've got to put more people in the game.Florida is tired of being a cheap date. You can’t just come in when it’s a presidential election and we’ve got a nominee and then do a few months of organizing.Republicans have been disciplined in our state in that way now for 24 years. And now it’s time for Democrats to do the same.ImageMr. Gillum lost his election by less than half a percentage point in 2018.CreditSaul Martinez/Getty ImagesIs this work only happening now because the Democratic Party and state party historically dropped the ball? When you don’t have a governor who can raise money for a party in 24 years, it’s very difficult for you to expect that party to turn on a dime and pull rabbits out of the hat. I’d say it’s a failure, writ large, of how people have treated Florida when it comes to organizing. It’s a state to go to when you want a presidential win, but outside of that? Good luck. What are you looking for the Democratic presidential candidates to prioritize? I am convinced that, through our primary process, we will produce the person who’s our strongest bet toward winning the White House. I hope whoever that is will be closer to my ideological end of the spectrum, but the truth is these primaries tend to produce candidates who are likely going to be our best bet to compete against Donald Trump. And more than anything, I think Democrats want to win. But what about a Joe Biden-esque figure, a moderate who doesn’t have the same type of progressive message you ran on? Whatever message Joe Biden may carry is closer to what I carry than Donald Trump’s. But if you're Joe Biden, you’re really going to have to search the recesses of your past and make sure that you're ready to reconcile those places that will put you outside the mainstream of where Democrats are today. And I expect that that’s probably part of the preparation to him entering the race, right? He’s got a long record, and there’s a lot for him to mull over, and a lot for him to assess where he’s evolved. And maybe where he hasn’t. Stung by Florida Midterm Losses, Democrats See a Swing State Drifting AwayJan. 13, 2019In Florida, Not All Politics Are Local, as Trump Shapes Governor’s RaceJuly 30, 2018Andrew Gillum Concedes to Ron DeSantis in Florida Governor’s RaceNov. 17, 2018A Centrist and a Liberal Test Florida, and Democrats Everywhere Watch CloselyNov. 5, 2018Has Governor DeSantis been more pragmatic than you thought he’d be? The governor recognizes what I know, which is, 30,000-odd votes separated the two of us. We each got 4 million-plus votes, and the difference was practically a rounding error. So the governor did what I think any smart politician would do: He reduced those areas in the early phases that would divide. He tacked a little more toward a pragmatic and less ideological place, and that has produced some good will for the governor. The test is how he performs, now that he has a Republican-controlled House and Senate that may push him back to either his natural leanings, or create a contrast within his party. I know you have to go, but I keep coming back to you, Beto O’Rourke, and Stacey Abrams. It is striking that the two black candidates are currently going to work in grass-roots organizing and the white candidate is running for president? You don’t have anything else to say on that? Listen, man, we’re used to working. Astead W. Herndon is a national political reporter based in New York. He was previously a Washington-based political reporter and a City Hall reporter for The Boston Globe.
@AsteadWesley A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: On Privilege of Candidates, and Ambitious Plan to Deliver Florida to the Democrats. 

Opinion | The Mueller Report Is Coming. Here’s What to Expect. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Mueller Report Is Coming. Here’s What to Expect.AdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Mueller Report Is Coming. Here’s What to Expect. A concise report will probably act as a “road map” to investigation for the Democratic House — and to further criminal investigation by other prosecutors. By Neal K. KatyalMr. Katyal was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama.Feb. 21, 2019ImageA report from Robert Mueller will most likely mark the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end.CreditCreditSaul Loeb/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesThe special counsel Robert Mueller will apparently soon turn in a report to the new attorney general, William Barr. Sure, there is still a lot of activity, including subpoenas, flying around, but that shouldn’t stop Mr. Mueller. The report is unlikely to be a dictionary-thick tome, which will disappoint some observers. But such brevity is not necessarily good news for the president. In fact, quite the opposite.For months, the president’s lawyers have tried to discredit Mr. Mueller and this report, but their efforts may have backfired. A concise Mueller report might act as a “road map” to investigation for the Democratic House of Representatives — and it might also lead to further criminal investigation by other prosecutors. A short Mueller report would mark the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end.The report is unlikely to be lengthy by design: The special counsel regulations, which I had the privilege of drafting in 1999, envision a report that is concise, “a summary” of what he found. And Mr. Mueller’s mandate is limited: to look into criminal activity and counterintelligence matters surrounding Russia and the 2016 election, as well as any obstruction of justice relating to those investigations.The regulations require the attorney general to give Congress a report, too. The regulations speak of the need for public confidence in the administration of justice and even have a provision for public release of the attorney general’s report. In a world where Mr. Mueller was the only investigator, the pressure for a comprehensive report to the public would be overwhelming.This is where the “witch hunt” attacks on Mr. Mueller may have backfired. For 19 months, Mr. Trump and his team have had one target to shoot at, and that target has had limited jurisdiction. But now the investigation resembles the architecture of the internet, with many different nodes, and some of those nodes possess potentially unlimited jurisdiction. Their powers and scope go well beyond Mr. Mueller’s circumscribed mandate; they go to Mr. Trump’s judgment and whether he lied to the American people. They also include law enforcement investigations having nothing to do with Russia, such as whether the president directed the commission of serious campaign finance crimes, as federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have already stated in filings. These are all critical matters, each with serious factual predicates already uncovered by prosecutors. Had Mr. Trump and his coterie done nothing wrong, they would have had little to fear from the special counsel, and a report from Mr. Mueller that cleared him would be the gold seal of approval. But Mr. Trump’s behavior, including his dangling of pardons to witnesses in the investigation, makes total exoneration unlikely, even though it is enormously difficult to prosecute crimes with international dimensions and assertions of privilege. The investigation has been further clouded by the fact that people in Mr. Trump’s inner circle lied repeatedly when it came to Russia (that long list includes Michael Flynn, Paul Manafort and Roger Stone).Sure, it is at least possible to envision the special counsel resolving each strand of the investigation and making such information public in detail. But it is also quite possible — and more likely — to think that the president’s bashing of Mr. Mueller may induce him to issue a more limited, by-the-book report, which will spawn further investigation. And the bashing may have encouraged Mr. Mueller to turn matters over to other investigators who have not been subject to the same sorts of public attack.The House of Representatives has already begun its investigation. To understand the dangers Mr. Trump may face in the aftermath of a limited Mueller report, consider the request Congress made in 1974 to the special prosecutor Leon Jaworski as it opened an impeachment inquiry. Mr. Jaworski is analogous to Mr. Mueller — indeed, his appointment was a model for the special counsel regulations. In March 1974, Peter Rodino, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, wrote to Mr. Jaworski, requesting all information he had uncovered in his investigation. Mr. Rodino understood that Mr. Jaworski’s mandate was far more limited than the House’s, and his letter stated that “it would be unthinkable if this material were kept from the House of Representatives in the course of the discharge of its most awesome constitutional responsibility.”Of course, there is no open impeachment inquiry now. But that could quickly change if Mr. Mueller writes a report that is anything less than a full clearing of the president: Congress would be under a constitutional obligation to investigate the facts for itself. Congress cannot be satisfied that impeachable offenses were not committed when Mr. Mueller’s investigative mandate did not cover many impeachable offenses, and when his report does not provide detailed information and answers to the few offenses that are within his mandate. This is where Mr. Mueller’s “by the book” behavior may be initially unsatisfying to Mr. Trump’s critics but ultimately more threatening to the president in the long run.The overlapping investigations by different entities, housed in different branches of government, spanning geography and even different governments (such as the New York attorney general’s investigation into the Trump Foundation), make it difficult for anyone, even Attorney General Barr, to end the inquiries. This news may be disappointing, for various reasons, to the president’s critics and supporters alike. But the ultimate result is a good one. It means the truth is likely to come out — maybe not on the timetable anyone wants, but it will. So whenever Mr. Mueller turns in his report, do not assume that things are over. Like “The king is dead, long live the King,” the investigations here serve a purpose that transcends any one individual or law enforcement entity. This is the architecture of our Constitution, which is designed to ferret out high-level wrongdoing through a variety of channels for the American public to see.RelatedOpinion | Neal K. Katyal: The Many Problems With the Barr LetterMarch 24, 2019Opinion | The Editorial Board: No Collusion, No ‘Exoneration’March 24, 2019Opinion | Noah Bookbinder: Release the Whole Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Opinion | Caroline Fredrickson: We Don’t Need to Read the Mueller ReportMarch 22, 2019Intimidation, Pressure and Humiliation: Inside Trump’s Two-Year War on the Investigations Encircling HimFeb. 19, 2019Trump Has Publicly Attacked the Russia Investigation More Than 1,100 TimesFeb. 19, 2019Neal K. Katyal (@neal_katyal) was an acting solicitor general under President Barack Obama and is a law professor at Georgetown.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A27 of the New York edition with the headline: What to Expect From the Mueller Report. 

Opinion | Trump’s Idea of a Middle East Nuclear Deal - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Trump’s Idea of a Middle East Nuclear DealAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump’s Idea of a Middle East Nuclear DealIgnore conflicts of interest and legal safeguards.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 20, 2019ImageCreditCreditDaniel ZenderAn interim report from the House Oversight Committee paints a familiar picture of Trump associates skirting the law to curry favor with people who can make them richer. This time, the dealing doesn’t involve Russians but Saudis, and it is not about a lavish tower in Moscow but the sale of nuclear power reactors. Negotiations were conducted by people who would stand to gain millions, in apparent disregard of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, which sets out explicit procedures and criteria for nuclear cooperation agreements and is intended to thwart proliferation of atomic weapons. Their conflicts of interest “could implicate federal criminal statutes,” according to the report.By ramming through the sale of as much as $80 billion in nuclear power plants, the Trump administration would provide sensitive know-how and materials to a government whose de facto leader, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, has suggested that he may eventually want a nuclear weapon as a hedge against Iran and has shown little concern for what the rest of the world thinks. The report also warned, “Within the United States, strong private commercial interests have been pressing aggressively for the transfer of highly sensitive nuclear technology to Saudi Arabia — a potential risk to U.S. national security absent adequate safeguards.”It has been known for some time that the administration has been discussing a nuclear cooperation deal with Saudi Arabia. But it took Democratic control of the House, and the committee, to shine a light on these dark dealings in the report, which draws on claims by multiple whistle-blowers and documents.The Saudis began dangling visions of billion-dollar deals soon after President Trump was elected. In January 2017, IP3 International, a private company that has assembled a consortium of American companies to build nuclear plants in Saudi Arabia, wrote Prince Mohammed, proposing a “Marshall Plan for the Middle East.” At the center were Michael Flynn, an adviser to IP3 who continued to push for the nuclear plan after becoming Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, and Thomas Barrack, the president’s billionaire investor friend who last week defended Saudi Arabia’s record of human rights abuses, saying the United States has committed “equal or worse” atrocities.Mr. Flynn is awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his talks with the Russian ambassador about sanctions relief and his work for the Turkish government. Mr. Barrack was chairman of the president’s inaugural committee, which is now under investigation.Mr. Barrack told ProPublica in 2017, while these negotiations were going on, that he was considering investing in Westinghouse, the bankrupt maker of nuclear reactors. The company was later acquired by a subsidiary of Brookfield Asset Management, around the time that firm bailed out the family of Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and Middle East policy adviser, from a bad investment in a Manhattan office tower.IP3 officials sent documents to Mr. Flynn for Mr. Trump to approve, before and after the inauguration, despite warnings by career and political staff members that the White House was ignoring laws requiring the president to keep lawmakers abreast of negotiations on nuclear cooperation agreements and submit the agreements to Congress for review and approval, according to the report. Early in 2017, legal advisers for the National Security Council agreed that Mr. Flynn had a potential conflict of interest. But despite at least two warnings — by the legal advisers and by H.R. McMaster, Mr. Flynn’s successor as national security adviser — that the N.S.C. staff stop work on the plan, the White House has continued to pursue it with Mr. Barrack as the designated point man. Mr. Trump reportedly met with nuclear power developers as recently as Feb. 12.The United States has long been a leader in nuclear technology, the sale of which is governed by bilateral pacts, called “123 agreements,” which require adherence to nine nonproliferation criteria. Some 21 countries, the European Union and the International Atomic Energy Agency have these agreements.The criteria include guarantees that none of the nuclear materials provided by the United States will be used for explosives, that none of the technology or classified data will be transferred to third parties without American consent, and that the other country involved in the agreement will not enrich uranium or reprocess plutonium, which could be a pathway to a nuclear bomb.The requirements are intended to prevent another country from gaining nuclear weapons. The Saudis say they want the technology only to produce nuclear power for domestic purposes and thus prolong their oil reserves, not to acquire a weapons capability. But it’s hard to trust such assurances, given Saudi animosity toward Iran and Prince Mohammed’s 2018 comment, “Without a doubt, if Iran developed a nuclear bomb, we will follow suit as soon as possible.” Although Iran never produced a nuclear weapon, it had a robust nuclear program until it agreed to an international deal in 2015 that curbed its activities. The deal, opposed by the Saudis, is now hanging by a thread because Mr. Trump abrogated America’s commitment. Efforts by the Obama administration to negotiate a nuclear cooperation agreement faltered over the Saudis’ refusal to make a legally binding commitment to forgo uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing. It’s no surprise that the Saudis would prefer to negotiate over nuclear technology with Mr. Trump, who seems to care far more about profits than about halting the spread of nuclear weapons.Congressional disaffection with Saudi Arabia was already rising over the Yemen war and the murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The House Oversight Committee’s investigation is a stark warning that there is even greater reason for concern and for congressional efforts to put stricter controls in place. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A26 of the New York edition with the headline: Mr. Trump’s Idea of a Saudi Nuclear Deal. 

In Trump, Netanyahu Sees an Ally Who Helps Him Push the Envelope - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|In Trump, Netanyahu Sees an Ally Who Helps Him Push the EnvelopeAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisIn Trump, Netanyahu Sees an Ally Who Helps Him Push the EnvelopeImagePrime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel last month at the White House with President Trump. Mr. Trump has wrapped Mr. Netanyahu in a warm embrace from the beginning of his presidency.CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesBy Mark LandlerApril 8, 2019WASHINGTON — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s vow for Israel to annex parts of the West Bank would flout four decades of American policy, under both Republican and Democratic presidents. But nothing emboldened Mr. Netanyahu to take such a risk more than the support of his ally President Trump.From recognizing Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights to moving the United States Embassy to Jerusalem, Mr. Trump has given Mr. Netanyahu the political cover and legal legitimacy to embrace a position that critics say would all but extinguish the dream of a viable Palestinian state.Mr. Trump’s moves are not merely temporary gestures, which a future president or Israeli leader could reverse. They are policy changes that experts say have permanently altered the contested landscape of the Middle East, making his own stated goal of a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians more unattainable than ever.“They talk about a peace plan, but we never see it,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former American ambassador to Israel who tried to negotiate a deal between Israel and the Palestinians during the Obama administration. “What we see are new facts on the ground that will make a two-state solution impossible.”The White House declined to comment on Monday on Mr. Netanyahu’s latest remarks. Partly, this reflected qualms about speaking out on a delicate diplomatic issue on the eve of an Israeli election. But it also revealed the extent to which Mr. Trump has become Mr. Netanyahu’s biggest enabler.ImageLabourers at a construction site in Beitar Illit, an Israeli settlement in the West Bank.CreditRonen Zvulun/ReutersFor Mr. Trump, who has talked about brokering a “deal of the century” between Israel and the Palestinians, Mr. Netanyahu’s aggressive move could pose a long-term problem. There is no obvious alternative to a two-state solution, however bleak its prospects. If Mr. Netanyahu is re-elected and follows through on his promise to annex territory, it would force the United States to retire a diplomatic strategy that dates to President Richard M. Nixon.Mr. Trump continues to promote the idea of a peace accord, placing his hope in a blueprint drafted by three of his senior aides: Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser; Jason D. Greenblatt, his special envoy for Middle East peace; and David M. Friedman, the American ambassador to Israel. The Trump administration, officials said, still intends to present the plan sometime after the Israeli election.“A big thing for me, and some of you won’t like this maybe, but I would love to see peace in the Middle East,” Mr. Trump said Saturday at a meeting of the Republican Jewish Coalition in Las Vegas. “If those three can’t do it, you’ll never have it done.”The setting captured the tension between Mr. Trump’s diplomatic ambitions and his domestic political imperatives. Acknowledging that the audience might not welcome a peacemaking effort that required compromises by Israel, he spent most of his time taking credit for decisions like the Jerusalem embassy and Golan Heights, which are popular with right-wing Jews and evangelical voters.In Israel, meanwhile, Mr. Netanyahu suggested that he had the tacit backing of Mr. Trump to annex Jewish settlements in the West Bank. The prime minister told Israeli news media over the weekend that the White House was aware of his plans and said that he hoped to “do it, if possible, with American support,” though he added that he would not change his position, regardless of how the United States reacted.ImageMembers of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corps on parade in Tehran last year.CreditAgence France-Presse — Getty ImagesThere was little in Washington’s silence to indicate that Mr. Netanyahu would face pushback. At every step of the prime minister’s hard-fought campaign to stay in power, Mr. Trump has tried to help him. The president’s announcement on the Golan Heights last month came at a critical moment, when Mr. Netanyahu faced a rising opponent and damaging new disclosures in the corruption cases against him.Even Mr. Trump’s announcement on Monday that the State Department would designate the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps a foreign terrorist organization paid dividends for Mr. Netanyahu. On his Hebrew-language Twitter feed, Mr. Netanyahu thanked Mr. Trump for “keeping the world safe from Iran aggression and terrorism.”Mr. Trump has wrapped Mr. Netanyahu in a warm embrace from the beginning of his presidency, even as he has voiced mild support for a two-state solution. “That’s what I think works best,” he said last fall during a meeting with the prime minister at the United Nations General Assembly.While Mr. Trump’s moves have been unstintingly pro-Israel, some could also be interpreted as a way to pressure the Palestinians to come back to the bargaining table. The administration cut off aid to Palestinian groups, closed its diplomatic office in Washington and ended funding for a United Nations agency that helps Palestinian refugees.None of that persuaded the Palestinians to reopen a dialogue with the United States that was cut off after Mr. Trump announced the embassy move in late 2017. The threat of annexation, experts said, might be the last form of leverage the United States has over the Palestinians. Unless they agree to a peace deal, the United States could give Mr. Netanyahu a green light to claim territory.ImageIsraeli tourists watching the Syrian side of the border in the Golan Heights last month.CreditAtef Safadi/EPA, via Shutterstock“The one issue that clearly opened a Pandora’s box was the Golan Heights announcement,” said Ghaith al-Omari, a former Palestinian negotiator. “Once they broke that particular taboo, they opened the door for all the annexationists in Israel to say, ‘Now go for the West Bank.’”Whatever his election-eve theatrics, some analysts argue that Mr. Netanyahu would be loath to take such a radical step. They say he is motivated less by a desire to upend decades of diplomacy than by his own political survival. Dangling the prospect of annexation is a way to nail down the support of smaller right-wing parties, which he will need to form a government.“He’s smart enough to realize that if he goes through with this, he is creating with his own hands a Bosnia on the Mediterranean,” said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.But Mr. Makovsky acknowledged that if the Trump administration presented its plan and was rebuffed by the Palestinians — a scenario he and other veterans of peace negotiations view as likely — Mr. Netanyahu could use that as a pretext for selective annexation of large settlements.Mr. Trump’s aides have kept a tight lid on the details and timing of their plan. Some analysts speculated that they might introduce it after the election, but before the victor forms a government, so as to influence the makeup of the new coalition. That scenario now seems less likely, given Mr. Netanyahu’s weakened position, because he will probably have to reach out to right-wing parties to form a government — and none of those are interested in a Palestinian state.Some former diplomats argue that the intense focus on the peace plan misses the point: The Trump administration has utterly transformed the paradigm for American engagement in the Middle East.“What we’re watching in terms of American policy is a shell game,” said Daniel C. Kurtzer, a former American ambassador to Israel and Egypt. “They want you to watch the peace plan — it’s 40 pages long; it’s 60 pages long. What they don’t want you to watch is how they are trying extraordinarily hard, under cover of the plan, to change things on the ground.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trump Adds a Shove to Netanyahu’s Risky Push. 

Anne Firor Scott, Scholar of Women’s History, Dies at 97 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexObituariesSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperObituaries|Anne Firor Scott, Scholar of Women’s History, Dies at 97AdvertisementSupported byAnne Firor Scott, Scholar of Women’s History, Dies at 97ImageAnne Firor Scott teaching at Duke University in 1985. Her scholarship emphasized the contributions that women, especially Southern women, have made to history.CreditCreditDuke University ArchivesBy Neil GenzlingerFeb. 13, 2019Anne Firor Scott, a scholar who brought a new prominence to women’s history and taught generations of Duke University students how to study and appreciate it, died on Feb. 5 at her home in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 97.Her family confirmed her death.In her books and in her classroom, Professor Scott underscored the contributions that women, especially Southern women, have made to history, individually and through organizations, an area that had been underreported or ignored in the male-dominated field of historical scholarship.Her 1970 book, “The Southern Lady: From Pedestal to Politics, 1830-1930,” challenged the portrait of Southern women as prettily dressed, tea-sipping spectators to the cataclysmic events of the century of the title.“Far from fitting the conventional image,” the historian Gerda Lerner wrote in a 1971 review in the Journal of American History, “the Southern lady emerges from the pages of this book as a resourceful, strong and resilient woman living in a society which severely restricted her options and opportunities.”Professor Scott found insights in places other historians had rarely explored.“Anne Scott’s love of manuscripts drew her to the voluminous collections of family papers of planters, politicians and Confederate soldiers, archived by admiring descendants,” her daughter, Rebecca J. Scott, herself a historian at the University of Michigan, said by email. “There she found the overlooked letters and diaries of wives and daughters. In her hands, these brought to light a very different and far less demure ‘Southern lady,’ one who had played a vital role in economic, political, and social life.”It was eye-opening work.“Arriving at Duke as a young scholar in a male-dominated field, Anne Scott introduced new and more inclusive approaches to the study of the past,” John L. Martin, chairman of Duke’s history department, said by email. Professor Scott was the first woman to chair the department, he said, and influenced generations of future scholars at Duke and beyond.When Anne Scott received a 2013 National Humanities Medal, presented to her in a White House ceremony by President Barack Obama, the citation heralded her “groundbreaking research spanning ideology, race, and class.”ImagePresident Barack Obama awarded the 2013 National Humanities Medal to Professor Scott during a ceremony in the East Room of the White House in 2014.CreditCharles Dharapak/Associated PressAnne Byrd Firor was born on April 24, 1921, in Montezuma, Ga., to John William and Mary (Moss) Firor. Her father was a college professor, her mother a homemaker.“Georgia high schools in the 1930s did not demand extraordinary academic exertion,” Professor Scott wrote of her teenage years in an essay for the collection “Shapers of Southern History: Autobiographical Reflections” (2004).“My energies,” she added, “went less into academic exploration than into editing the school newspaper, a job with the fringe benefit of free movie passes.”Yet she must have been a good student — she received a bachelor’s degree at the University of Georgia at 19. After working for a year at IBM in Atlanta, she earned a master’s degree in political science at Northwestern University.In 1943 she went to Washington for an internship in a congressman’s office, then took a job the next year with the League of Women Voters. That organization was in upheaval at the time, and suddenly she and two other young staff members found themselves doing high-level work writing letters to cabinet secretaries, drafting congressional testimony, coordinating with other women’s groups and more.“It was a heady experience,” she wrote, “and one that in retrospect had a great deal to do with my later evolution as a historian of women.”In 1946 she met a former Navy pilot, Andrew Scott, and the next year they married. He was in graduate school at Harvard, and, joining him there, she secured a fellowship at Radcliffe College. She worked on her Ph.D. there while raising the couple’s three children, obtaining it in 1958 with a dissertation on Southern progressives in Congress.“It would not pass muster in today’s graduate programs,” she wrote of that dissertation. “But it did contain the germ of an important insight: In examining the varieties of reform in which Southerners were involved over the years after 1890, I kept stumbling over women.”Notable Deaths 2018A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018Her husband was hired as a professor at the University of North Carolina, and she was soon teaching a few American history courses there. At a faculty seminar, she delivered a paper called “The ‘New Woman’ in the New South.”“To my surprise,” she wrote in the autobiographical essay, “the all-male faculty took to the subject with enthusiasm and spent so much time telling me about their grandmothers that I never quite finished delivering the prepared essay.”In 1961 the history department at nearby Duke found itself with an opening and invited her to fill it “until we can find somebody,” as the chairman’s letter to her put it. She stayed for 30 years, serving as department chairwoman from 1980 to 1985.Professor Scott’s books after “The Southern Lady” included “Natural Allies: Women’s Associations in American History” (1991). In its introduction, she explained how the book came about, noting that in her research on Southern women she kept encountering women’s groups that had played important social roles. Delving deeper, she realized that this had been true all over the country, with such organizations promoting the care of orphans, school lunches, better trash collection and all sorts of other issues.“It soon became clear that women’s associations were literally everywhere,” she wrote, “known or unknown, famous or obscure; young or ancient; auxiliary or freestanding; reactionary, conservative, liberal, radical, or a mix of all four; old women, young women, black women, white women, women from every ethnic group, every religious group had their societies. Before long, as the scope, magnitude, and diversity of this phenomenon came into view, I realized that it lay at the very heart of American social and political development.”Professor Scott’s husband died in 2005. In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two sons, David and Donald; six grandchildren; and a great-grandson.In her autobiographical essay, Professor Scott reflected on those who had influenced and furthered her interests over the years.“I have had three kinds of vital mentors,” she wrote, “living women, women whose documents I have studied, and academic men and women. And of course my students, who have been central to the process of learning.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Anne Firor Scott, 97, a Scholar of Women’s History in the South and Beyond. 

Edward F. Zigler, an Architect of Head Start, Dies at 88 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexObituariesSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperObituaries|Edward F. Zigler, an Architect of Head Start, Dies at 88AdvertisementSupported byEdward F. Zigler, an Architect of Head Start, Dies at 88ImageEdward F. Zigler, right, and Stephen Hess, the national chairman of the White House Conference on Children and Families, with President Richard M. Nixon at the White House in 1970. That year Nixon nominated Dr. Zigler, a champion of the youngest children, to be chief of the children’s bureau of what was then the Department of Health, Education and Welfare.CreditCreditThe Edward Zigler Center in Child Development and Social Policy, Yale UniversityBy Sam RobertsFeb. 12, 2019Edward F. Zigler, a psychologist who in the mid-1960s helped design Head Start, the vanguard federal government program for preschool children, died on Feb. 7 at his home in North Haven. He was 88.His son, Scott, said the cause was complications of coronary artery disease.Dr. Zigler was an early champion of guaranteed time off from work for new parents, the teaching of child-rearing skills to teenagers, and the integration of health and social service programs and day care into neighborhood public school buildings.But he was probably best known as one of the architects of Head Start, which began as a summer program under President Lyndon B. Johnson’s War on Poverty. Jule Sugarman, the executive secretary of a panel commissioned by Johnson, recruited Dr. Zigler and other experts to devise and carry out the program.Since 1965, more than 35 million children have been enrolled in Head Start, which each year provides early education and medical services to about a million children under 5 years old at a cost of about $10 billion.When it was first proposed, the program had its critics, some of whom even called it a Communist plot to take children from their parents and destabilize the American family by encouraging women to work outside the home.But child care became a necessity for more working parents. And research in child development, a discipline that Dr. Zigler helped validate, attributed to Head Start and Early Head Start advances in educational achievement, improvements in physical and mental health and a reduction in delinquency.ImageRitchie Jones, a teacher’s assistant, with students at the Don Brewer Center Head Start program in Jacksonville, Fla., in November. Roughly a million children a year benefit from the Head Start program, which Dr. Zigler helped create.CreditEve Edelheit for The New York Times“He had to really fight to be taken seriously, but he did, and that’s made it possible for the field to have the credibility it does today,” Ruby Takanishi, who was then president of the Foundation for Child Development, said in remarks when Dr. Zigler was honored by the American Psychological Association in 2003.To Dr. Zigler, Head Start was not just another ivory-tower theory to be tested on the nation’s most vulnerable children. He had seen it work in a settlement house in Kansas City, Mo., where he and his immigrant parents learned English and received medical care, meals and social support.“As the son of a non-English speaker, and having grown up in poverty,” Dr. Zigler said, “I’ve been able to exceed expectations and possibilities.”As an adviser to every president from Johnson to Barack Obama, Dr. Zigler sought to debunk what he called “the myth that we are a child-oriented society.”The litany of neglect he outlined included inadequate services for expectant mothers, a proliferation of largely ignored latchkey children, and an increase in child care that was basically custodial. He also worried that children were becoming “overprogrammed” and “not valued for themselves but only for their accomplishments.”Dr. Zigler wrote in The New York Times in 1976 that “children and families all too often come last, and the social barriers to providing a better quality of life for our nation’s children have become almost insurmountable.”ImageDr. Zigler in 2001. “Children and families all too often come last,” he once said, “and the social barriers to providing a better quality of life for our nation’s children have become almost insurmountable.”CreditEdward Zigler Center in Child Development and Social PolicyPresident Richard M. Nixon nominated Dr. Zigler to be chief of the children’s bureau of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (now the Department of Health and Human Services) in early 1970. Within months the bureau became the Office of Child Development, and Dr. Zigler became its first permanent director.In 1971, he collaborated with Representative John Brademas of Indiana and Senator Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota, both Democrats, to transform child care from what Mr. Zigler called “a welfare mother’s issue” and a “women’s issue” to a national issue affecting workplace productivity.They introduced a bill to provide affordable child care for working families, with fees based on income. It was approved by Congress but vetoed by the president.“Nixon vetoed the bill because of the outpouring of mail from the evangelicals and the far right,” Dr. Zigler told The Times in 1989. “They didn’t want women to work. They said we were Sovietizing America’s children — that children would be raised in centers rather than by their mothers.”In 1975, Dr. Zigler was chairman of a committee overseeing the resettlement of 3,000 infants and children evacuated during the fall of Saigon.Edward Frank Zigler was born in Kansas City on March 1, 1930. His parents, Frank and Gertrude (Gleitman) Zigler, were Jewish immigrants from Poland who sold fruit from a horse-drawn wagon. Ed helped.Notable Deaths 2018: Politics and Public AffairsA memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018A neighborhood social center also helped the family acclimate. Inspired by the late-19th-century settlement house model, the center’s volunteers lived temporarily in poor urban communities and provided social services.After graduating from a vocational high school and serving in the Army during the Korean War, Dr. Zigler earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of Kansas City (now the University of Missouri at Kansas City) in 1954. Four years later he received a doctorate in clinical psychology from the University of Texas at Austin. He joined the Yale faculty as an assistant professor of psychology in 1959.He married Bernice Gorelick in 1955. She died in 2017. In addition to their son, Perrin Scott Zigler, dean of the School of Drama at the University of North Carolina School of the Arts, he is survived by two granddaughters and a sister, Maurine Agron.In 1976, Dr. Zigler was named a Sterling professor, Yale’s highest professorial honor. In 2005, Yale’s Bush Center for Child Development and Social Policy was renamed the Edward Zigler Center in Child Development and Social Policy. He was director emeritus until his death.The author or editor of 40 books, Dr. Zigler developed what was called the first parenting education program for teenagers in the nation’s public schools. He also established a replicable model called the School of the 21st Century, designed to embed child care and other social services in public school buildings.Dr. Zigler later expressed concern that Head Start’s educational impact had been oversold. There was, he wrote in a Times Op-Ed article in 1982, a “mistaken impression that a one-year Head Start program could compensate for a lifetime of deprivation.”But he had no doubt about its value.“While Head Start cannot guarantee a poor child’s entrance into Yale or Harvard,” he wrote, “there is now unequivocal evidence that Head Start provides lasting educational benefits.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A24 of the New York edition with the headline: Edward F. Zigler, 88, Psychologist, Is Dead. 

Opinion | How Trump Has Hurt the Gun Lobby - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|How Trump Has Hurt the Gun LobbyAdvertisementOpinionSupported byHow Trump Has Hurt the Gun LobbyHis presidency hasn’t been the boon for gun-rights supporters that they might have hoped.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Feb. 11, 2019ImageCreditCreditJames YangLast Valentine’s Day, a year ago this Thursday, classes were wrapping up at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School when a former student with a semiautomatic rifle murdered 17 people and wounded 17 others. It so happens that this Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee will move to advance legislation requiring background checks on all firearm sales. The killer in the Parkland, Fla., school massacre passed such a check, but this measure would close a loophole exploited by other killers that exempts unlicensed gun sellers from conducting background checks. Support for such a change is overwhelmingly popular, even among gun owners. The bill has an excellent chance of passing the Democrat-led House. Its prospects in the Senate, controlled by the Republican majority leader, Mitch McConnell, are bleak.Even so, the very emergence of this bill is a reminder of how the gun debate has shifted since President Trump took office — and not in a direction that Second Amendment crusaders might have hoped. Politically, financially and legally, the gun-rights cause and, more specifically, the lobbying juggernaut that is the National Rifle Association have not fared well in the Trump era. If this trend continues — or accelerates — it could wind up being a rare silver lining to Mr. Trump’s presidency.Some of the challenges facing the gun lobby are not specific to Mr. Trump. A gun-loving president always makes a less effective boogeyman than a gun-skeptical one. In that way, President Barack Obama was good for the gun-rights cause — and it was perhaps inevitable that, having labored to get Mr. Trump elected, the N.R.A.’s fund-raising would taper off. In 2017, the group’s revenues dropped by $55 million, or 15 percent, over its 2016 haul, driven largely by a decline in member dues. Combined with its heavy spending in the 2016 campaign, the group now finds itself in a deep financial hole, in debt to the tune of $31.8 million. The N.R.A. has suffered Trump-specific turmoil as well. As part of the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has been exploring possible ties between the N.R.A. and Russia. Among Mr. Mueller’s top concerns is reportedly whether Russian interests funneled money to the Trump campaign via the N.R.A. — and, if so, to what degree the group’s leaders may have known what was happening.In addition to Mr. Mueller’s interest in the N.R.A., there have been multiple congressional inquiries into a possible love triangle among the gun group, Team Trump and Russia. With Democrats now in charge of the House, expect the scrutiny to get more intense. Representative Adam Schiff, the new head of the Intelligence Committee, has said that under Republican leadership the committee did not delve deeply enough into the muck. “We were really not able to determine how the Russians used the N.R.A. as a back channel or look into allegations that the Russians may have funneled money through the N.R.A. to influence the election,” Mr. Schiff recently told The Times. “Those issues remain of deep interest to us.”Beyond any legal missteps that may be uncovered, revelations that the N.R.A. was snuggling up to Russian officials and intimates of President Vladimir Putin already have proved a public-relations nightmare. Particularly embarrassing is the bizarre case of Maria Butina, the Russian graduate student who pleaded guilty in December to working as a foreign agent and who conspired to infiltrate the N.R.A. and the Republican Party in order to help Russia influence American politics.While the Russia-N.R.A. bonds were years in the making, Americans can thank Mr. Trump for the intense spotlight on this unwholesome relationship.Last year, for the first time in nearly two decades, polling indicated that more Americans held a negative view than a positive view of the N.R.A. There has also been an upswing in support for stricter gun laws.Despite the will of the people, the Republican-controlled Congress clung to its do-nothing approach after the Parkland shooting and others like it. At the state level, however, there has been action. The private sector also got involved. Dick’s Sporting Goods and Walmart both halted the sale of assault-style weapons in their stores, along with the sale of guns and ammunition to customers under age 21. Companies ranging from MetLife to Delta to Alamo Rent A Car did away with discounts for N.R.A. members.The political world has sensed this shift in the wind. Of late, more lawmakers have seemed willing to boast about their poor ratings by the gun lobby. The 2018 elections were the first in which spending for gun-safety advertising exceeded that for guns-rights ads, and candidates backed by gun-safety groups enjoyed important victories.Not all of the change can be directly attributable to Mr. Trump, of course. But, much as women’s frustration over his presidency helped drive the #MeToo movement, his administration has energized gun-safety advocates, who have put the gun lobby and its cause on the defensive.This won’t yield an imminent revolution on regulating firearms, especially within the overly cautious halls of Congress. The N.R.A. remains a political powerhouse, an increasingly conservative Republican Party still controls the White House and the Senate, and guns remain a centerpiece of the culture war.But with a topic this polarizing, small steps deserve to be applauded — and encouraged. When lawmakers held a hearing on the background-check bill last week, it was the first hearing in eight years to broach the subject of gun violence.With a little luck and some political spine, more such actions will follow. The victims and survivors of Parkland, and of the 339 other mass shootings in 2018 alone, deserve more than pious sentiment and political cowardice.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: How Mr. Trump Has Hurt the Gun Lobby. 

Senate Confirms Trump Nominee Who as Justice Official Fought the Affordable Care Act - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Senate Confirms Trump Nominee Who as Justice Official Fought the Affordable Care ActAdvertisementSupported bySenate Confirms Trump Nominee Who as Justice Official Fought the Affordable Care ActImageChad A. Readler speaking at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing in 2017. The Senate on Wednesday confirmed him as President Trump’s 33rd federal appeals court judge.CreditCreditAndrew Harnik/Associated PressBy Carl HulseMarch 6, 2019WASHINGTON — The Senate on Wednesday confirmed Chad A. Readler of Ohio as President Trump’s 33rd federal appeals court judge despite bipartisan criticism that as a Justice Department official in the Trump administration he had shirked his official responsibility to defend the Affordable Care Act when it was challenged in court.Mr. Readler’s nomination is just the latest to divide the Senate as Republicans renew their drive to fill federal district and circuit court vacancies while gearing up to force through a Senate rules change to accelerate the confirmation process for the remainder of Mr. Trump’s tenure.With the approval of Mr. Readler to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and two other appeals court nominees headed for a vote, Mr. Trump will have filled nearly 20 percent of the nation’s appellate court judgeships. That is a pace well ahead of his predecessors and one that puts his stamp firmly on the federal judiciary, with nearly two years remaining in his term. President Barack Obama did not see his 33rd circuit judge confirmed until early in his second term.The fight over Mr. Readler was intensified by his role in the legal struggle over the Affordable Care Act, which Democrats said he was obligated to defend as a top lawyer in the Justice Department’s civil division because it was existing law. Instead, he filed a brief in support of a lawsuit by Republican attorneys general aimed at gutting the Affordable Care Act, and argued that it, and its protections against denying coverage for pre-existing conditions, was unconstitutional.The Trump administration has sought to repeal the law, but the effort failed and the law remains in place.Mr. Readler’s nomination was approved on a 52-to-47 vote with all Democrats and one Republican voting no. Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the sole Republican to speak out against Mr. Readler, cited his health care argument in opposing him.“Rather than defend the law and its protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions — such as asthma, arthritis, cancer, diabetes and heart disease — Mr. Readler’s brief in Texas v. United States argued that they should be invalidated,” she said.Democrats seized on that issue, saying that while Senate Republicans proclaimed that they supported coverage for those with existing conditions, they were backing an architect of the Trump administration’s attempt to dismantle the law.“Tens of millions of Americans who need this protection are watching,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader. “A vote for Readler is very simply a vote for the lawsuit to strike down our health care law.” Mr. Schumer noted that Mr. Readler was nominated for the court seat the day after his health care brief was filed.“Apparently in the Trump administration depriving people of protections for pre-existing conditions — it is something to be rewarded and rewarded no less with a lifetime appointment,” he said.One after the other, Democrats took to the floor to criticize the nomination. The depth of their opposition — and eagerness to highlight Mr. Readler’s health care actions — was demonstrated by unusually strong opposition from Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, who has been nearly alone in his willingness to regularly support Trump nominees, including the Supreme Court justices Brett M. Kavanaugh and Neil M. Gorsuch.Image“A vote for Readler is very simply a vote for the lawsuit to strike down our health care law,” said Senator Chuck Schumer of the nominee.CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York Times“This is something I don’t do often,” Mr. Manchin said. “I don’t take it lightly.” But Mr. Readler, he said, had “single-handedly tried to rip insurance away from West Virginians and Americans” when his Justice Department responsibility was just the opposite.“This gentleman has basically shown it is not about the law; it is not about the Constitution; it is about his politics and himself and not a man who should be sitting on a higher court,” Mr. Manchin said.Republicans said little in support of Mr. Readler, nor did any of them back his position in the health care case.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, who has made confirming judicial nominees a top priority, said that Mr. Readler, 46, had “built a longstanding reputation in private practice as a consummate legal professional.”He was the second appellate judge to be confirmed this week after a Senate vote on Tuesday on the nomination of Allison Rushing, 36, a former clerk for Justice Clarence Thomas, to a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Republicans dismissed concerns about her lack of experience, and Ms. Rushing will be the youngest federal judge in the nation.After Mr. Readler’s confirmation vote, Mr. McConnell immediately moved to force a final vote on another nominee, Eric E. Murphy, 40, the state solicitor for Ohio, to fill another vacancy on the Sixth Circuit. Democrats and liberal activists oppose him, saying he fought against the legalization of same-sex marriage and supported efforts to make it harder to vote.The fate of another high-profile nominee — Neomi Rao for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit — remains uncertain, though Republican objections that threatened her confirmation have quieted.Republicans have the power to confirm Mr. Trump’s judicial nominees with a simple majority because of a successful attempt by a Democratic-led Senate in 2013 to overturn a longstanding rule requiring 60 votes to confirm a judge. But the process can still be time-consuming. Mr. McConnell has grown increasingly impatient and frustrated with Democrats for stretching out the time to consider nominees.Republicans are now threatening to use their majority to push through a change that would cut debate time on most nominees to two hours from 30 hours after an initial procedural vote. The change would not apply to appeals court judges like Mr. Readler, but it would allow the Senate to clear a backlog of lower-level district court nominees much faster.Mr. McConnell said again Tuesday that he would like to reach an agreement on the change with Democrats but that appears highly unlikely.“We’re still hoping to have bipartisan support to go forward with the standing order, which would require 60 votes,” Mr. McConnell said. “In the absence of that, it is still my desire to try to achieve that, and that’s an issue we’ll have, a discussion we’ll have among Republicans.”Without a compromise, Republican senators said they expected to force the rules showdown by the end of the month. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A11 of the New York edition with the headline: Senate Confirms Judicial Nominee Who Had Resisted the Affordable Care Act. 

Opinion | Your Grandchildren Are Already in Debt - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Your Grandchildren Are Already in DebtAdvertisementOpinionSupported byYour Grandchildren Are Already in DebtIt’s irresponsible to pretend that America can add splashy new social programs without finding a way to pay for them.By Steven RattnerMr. Rattner served as counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration.Feb. 11, 2019Image CreditCreditIllustration by Jennifer Heuer; Photo Getty ImagesMedicare for All. The Green New Deal. Free college tuition.With each new entrant into the Democratic presidential sweepstakes comes a fresh cascade of ambitious social programs to entice and excite would-be supporters.The list of “payfors,” to use a bit of Washington jargon, grows more slowly. They’ll pay for this how, again? Tax the rich, tax the rich — or take cover behind a convenient bit of progressive dogma: Don’t worry about the fiscal impact because America’s rising budget deficits and debt levels don’t much matter.That’s a scary drift of thought, and it should set off alarm bells for all Americans. Vast increases in debt will ultimately compromise Washington’s ability to maintain its current array of spending programs, let alone add new ones, and threaten our standard of living.A short history: While Republicans once were the party of fiscal responsibility, President Ronald Reagan threw that out the window by embracing enormous tax cuts justified by a fiction: the idea that the resulting growth would more than pay for them.More than a decade later, President Bill Clinton nursed the budget back into surplus, only to have President George W. Bush force through his own tax cuts. His vice president, Dick Cheney, once reportedly said, “Reagan proved deficits don’t matter.”That attitude, plus the puncturing of the dot-com bubble, two wars and a financial crisis, brought us our first $1 trillion gap in 2009. But by 2015, President Barack Obama had whittled the deficit down to $439 billion.Then came President Trump, with his vast tax cuts along with a bipartisan move to abandon spending restraint with the fiscal 2018 budget. The resulting legislation added $400 billion to the deficit, according to an estimate from the Committee for a Responsible Budget, and the consequence is a deficit for the current fiscal year of nearly $900 billion.On present course and speed, the United States is on track to experience the highest deficits in its history, reaching more than $2 trillion a year by 2029. Those annual gaps are projected to bring America’s total debt to nearly $33 trillion by that date, according to the Committee for a Responsible Budget. That’s double today’s level and more than the size of our economy, a peacetime record.One concern often raised by deficit hawks is that so much borrowing by the government could force interest rates higher, making it harder for businesses to borrow and reducing the amount of capital available to the private sector. In the worst case scenario, they fear that credit markets could partially or completely shut down, putting a hard brake on the economy.While that’s not impossible, my principal fear is that all this irresponsible borrowing amounts to intergenerational theft. America is simultaneously indulging in two deficit-busting desires: for lower taxes and for robust government programs. Eventually, the interest on all the debt will force the governments of future generations to reverse those fiscally imprudent policies in order to pay for today’s profligacy.It’s like a couple in their 40s deciding to borrow money to sustain a lavish lifestyle and then leaving the debts for their kids to pay off after they’re gone.But that’s not all. The generally accepted measure of America’s national debt doesn’t include obligations for future retirement and health care benefits.relatedMore on the deficit.Opinion | Steven Rattner: A Better Way to Tax the RichJan. 28, 2019Opinion | David Leonhardt: The Democrats Are the Party of Fiscal ResponsibilityApril 15, 2018Opinion | Paul Krugman: Who’s Afraid of the Budget Deficit?Jan. 3, 2019In a perfect world, those programs would function like insurance; each generation’s annual premiums would pay for support received during its golden years. That principle was abandoned long ago. Based on the current demographics of the American population, we would need to set aside $49 trillion to make the Medicare and Social Security Trust Funds truly solvent.Meanwhile, progressives argue that certain kinds of spending are, in reality, investments that will bring large dividends in the future. With interest rates still near historic lows, they contend that the returns from borrowing for these investments would greatly exceed interest costs.While that’s true, deciding what is an investment and what is just an expense with no potential return would inevitably become a political debate. Democrats and Republicans might quickly agree about investing in building roads and bridges but what about spending on education? Should that be considered an investment? What about work force training or research and development? I fear that in the end, many spending programs would be classified as investments simply to make the budget deficit appear smaller.Regardless, taxes need to go up, starting with unwinding the Trump tax cuts for individuals, which favored the rich. Next, we should take a tougher look at corporate taxation. Reducing the corporate tax rate to maintain our global competitiveness made sense, but it didn’t need to go all the way from 35 percent to 21 percent.Then there are potential new sources of tax revenue. I’ve expressed support, for example, for eliminating the special treatment of capital gains and dividends. Let’s also reform overly generous estate tax provisions. While I’m all for putting most of the burden on the rich, we need to be mindful of realistic boundaries to ensure that tax avoidance or even expatriation don’t start to rise.On the spending side, unfortunately, taking a hard look at the entitlements programs is essential. I’m not suggesting eviscerating them, but ideas like modestly raising the retirement age or scaling benefits based on need should be explored.Even implementing all these adjustments won’t prudently provide room for expansive new social programs. Adopting those would require still tougher choices about raising taxes and trimming spending.If we care about our kids and the country we are leaving them, Americans will make these tough decisions instead of continuing to duck them.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Steven Rattner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, is a Wall Street executive and a contributing opinion writer. For latest updates and posts, please visit stevenrattner.com and follow me on Twitter (@SteveRattner) and Facebook.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: Our Grandkids Are Already in Debt. 

Opinion | Trump’s 5G Plan Is More Than a Gift to His Base - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Trump’s 5G Plan Is More Than a Gift to His BaseAdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump’s 5G Plan Is More Than a Gift to His BaseThe Trump campaign floated a proposal for a wholesale 5G network. It’s politically expedient but still a great idea.By Kevin WerbachMr. Werbach, a professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, served as an adviser on telecommunication policy in the Clinton and Obama administrations.March 6, 2019ImageCreditCreditCristina SpanòThe Trump re-election campaign’s wireless open access proposal was a poorly vetted scheme possibly intended to score political points. It was squelched almost immediately after it became public, as shocked White House staff members complained that it contradicted the administration’s support for competing wireless networks. The twist? Open access wireless is actually a terrific idea. Some forward-thinking Democrats and public interest advocates have been pushing it for decades.The concept, promoted by Republican operatives such as Newt Gingrich and Karl Rove, is for a network supporting fifth-generation (5G) wireless technology to operate on a wholesale basis. Carriers such as AT&T, Comcast and Verizon could buy capacity. So could anyone else: Apple, Amazon, Walmart, Uber or small operators serving rural areas. No company could use exclusive control over spectrum to block competition.Last year, a leaked National Security Council presentation called for nationalization of 5G networks to improve cybersecurity and better compete against China. The proposal was ignominiously killed and its author left the White House. The Trump re-election campaign’s proposal wisely dropped the government takeover. It shifted the focus to wholesale access, which could be overseen by an independent nonprofit organization, like the independent system operators that manage electricity markets. Today’s cellphones use fourth-generation wireless technology, or 4G. 5G, a set of standards under development, promises higher speeds, improved coverage and better support for new technologies such as augmented reality, autonomous vehicles and connected sensors in all types of devices. 5G networks require denser construction of towers, reducing the distance between a tower and each device. To make 5G a reality, companies and consumers around the world will have to invest hundreds of billions of dollars over the next decade to upgrade hardware, phones and networks. The countries leading the way could reap huge economic benefits.The December arrest in Canada of a top official of Huawei, China’s biggest communications hardware provider, raised the stakes considerably. Meng Wanzhou is accused of committing fraud to help Huawei evade sanctions against Iran. The United States is pressuring its allies to ban Huawei from building their 5G networks on national security grounds.Those moves will not, however, accelerate 5G deployment in the United States. The Chinese government aggressively coordinates and promotes 5G activity, which is proceeding at a breakneck pace. China Tower, for example, added 460 wireless tower sites per day in 2017, more than ten times the rate of American companies, according to a report by Deloitte.relatedMore on 5GOpinion | Tim Wu: Should Trump Nationalize a 5G Network?Jan. 31, 2018What 5G Will Mean for YouFeb. 21, 2016Opinion | Tom Wheeler: If 5G Is So Important, Why Isn’t It Secure?Jan. 21, 2019The view of American policymakers, which has been consistent through at least four administrations, is that competition among wireless operators is superior to heavy-handed government initiatives. Nevermind that while American wireless providers have a strong track record on innovation, prices for consumers are high by global standards, and the so-called free market is actually an oligopoly of four major carriers that could soon fall to three. Way back in 1995, a Columbia University economist, Eli Noam, proposed an alternative: a wholesale spectrum provider that sold capacity to all. Over the next few years, some progressives (myself included) argued that cable broadband networks should be subject to a similar open access mandate. And in 2010, as the Federal Communications Commission developed the National Broadband Plan, a team led by the Harvard legal scholar Yochai Benkler made a detailed case for wholesale sharing. The idea was shot down each time amid furious industry opposition. Why would the Trump campaign endorse open access? Rivada Networks, a politically connected firm that counts Peter Thiel, a prominent Trump donor, among its investors, appears to be positioning itself for the lucrative contract to provide the technology for such a system. Mr. Trump’s political advisers see the open access plan as a way to improve wireless service in rural areas, a gift to the president’s base.These motivations should not obscure the value of open access. The communications industry has already shown that a competitive open market sometimes can’t develop without government action. The F.C.C. had to prevent phone companies from squelching internet service providers, and many companies that develop online applications face potential blocking of their services and discrimination by broadband operators. The primary way the government makes wireless spectrum available today is through exclusive licensing to the highest bidder. That can make it difficult for companies that provide niche services such as telemedicine and smart electric grids, or that serve less populous areas, which the big national carriers often ignore.Even some architects of the current system are reconsidering. Peter Cramton, for example, helped more than a dozen countries design spectrum auctions. He’s now Rivada’s chief economist. As Mr. Cramton and his co-author, Linda Doyle, wrote in 2017, wholesale open access offers the best hope to break the wireless oligopoly while also using spectrum more efficiently.They were right. Making capacity available in real time at market prices limits hoarding and encourages innovation. Unleashing our brilliant start-up ecosystem through such market mechanisms, along with opportunities for unlicensed access to wireless capacity, is America’s best hope to beat China in 5G.But a poorly managed implementation could create a greedy wholesale monopolist, or turn wireless access into a political football, as is the disastrous fate of Australia’s open access fiber network. And the details of implementation are not this administration’s strong suit.There is also no guarantee that rural wireless providers will rush in to take advantage of the opportunity. A wholesale system will require careful oversight and a long-term commitment by the government. The political campaign’s rapid walk-back does not inspire confidence.Nonetheless, tech-savvy Democrats should welcome the embrace of their open access vision. Even if it means being more supportive of a Trump campaign position than the White House. Kevin Werbach, a professor at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, is the author of “The Blockchain and the New Architecture of Trust.” He served as an adviser on telecommunications policy in the Clinton and Obama administrations.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: The Best Way to Deliver 5G. 

The Week in Business: Jeff Bezos’ Private Texts, and More ‘Fog’ in London - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBusinessSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBusiness|The Week in Business: Jeff Bezos’ Private Texts, and More ‘Fog’ in LondonAdvertisementSupported bywith interestThe Week in Business: Jeff Bezos’ Private Texts, and More ‘Fog’ in LondonPlus, predatory lenders get a boost, and President Trump won’t meet with his counterpart in China — yet.ImageCreditCreditGiacomo BagnaraBy Charlotte CowlesFeb. 10, 2019Want this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Are you a Valentine’s Day person? If not, welcome to a growing club of detractors. Only 51 percent of Americans plan to celebrate the “holiday” in 2019, according to the National Retail Federation, marking a 12-year downward trend. But if you are an observer, how nice — for your loved ones. Retailers are expecting you to spend a record amount on presents this season (an average of $161.96, up 13 percent from 2018). At least you die-hard romantics are making up for the rest of us. Speaking of gifts, here’s mine to you: All you need to know about the latest business and tech news, gathered into one email that’ll set you up for the week ahead. Chocolates sold separately.FEB. 3-9What’s Up? Nothing to Hide HereJeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the wealthiest man in the world, accused the owner of The National Enquirer on Thursday of attempting to extort and blackmail him by using racy photos that Mr. Bezos had texted with his girlfriend, the former television host Lauren Sanchez. In a candid blog post, Mr. Bezos pasted emails from the tabloid’s representatives who threatened to release the images if he did not stop investigating how they had obtained his texts. “Of course I don’t want personal photos published, but I also won’t participate in their well-known practice of blackmail, political favors, political attacks and corruption,” Mr. Bezos wrote. Borrowers BewareIf you’ve ever considered going into crippling debt, the government just made it easier to do so. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said on Wednesday that it planned to eliminate Obama-era rules that protect consumers from taking on bigger loans than they can handle. Under the proposal, lenders would be able to grant high-interest payday loans (short-term loans intended to tide people over until their next paycheck) without making sure consumers can actually pay them off. And those lenders would be allowed to do so repeatedly, contributing to a cycle where borrowers spin into ballooning debt. The agency said its policy would give people more access to credit. But critics say it will help predatory lenders take advantage of people who already can’t make ends meet. A Green New UtopiaIt’s not just your imagination — the past five years have been the hottest on record in Earth’s history, according to data from NASA. The report set the stage for liberal Democrats to unveil their Green New Deal on Thursday, a proposal for sweeping changes that would make the United States carbon neutral by 2030 and create millions of “green jobs” in the process. The measure was drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, and it won’t go anywhere for now — Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has no plans to bring it for a vote. Either way, it’s a bold rallying cry, and may gain steam going into the 2020 elections. FEB. 10-16What’s Next? Another Shutdown CountdownAs the economy recovers from the government’s longest shutdown in history (and will be recuperating for some time), Congress is working to prevent another one starting after midnight on Friday. That’s the deadline for Mr. Trump to strike an agreement with lawmakers on a new spending bill that will keep the lights on at federal agencies. Mr. Trump continues to insist on funding for a border wall, but is showing some signs of willingness to compromise. Speaker Pelosi says she’s aiming for “good news in a short period of time.” New (Lunar) Year, Same Trade WarAre you sick of hearing about the costly trade dispute between the United States and China? Me, too. But this week could be the beginning of the end of it — or, at least Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin seems to hope so. He’s traveling to Beijing with other American officials to continue talks that started in Washington in January. If the two sides can’t hammer out a resolution before March 2, the Trump administration will raise punishing tariffs on Chinese goods, hurting businesses and consumers in both countries (and others). For his own part, Mr. Trump said it was unlikely that he would sit down with President Xi Jinping of China before the deadline. London FogThe monetary repercussions of Britain’s chaotic withdrawal from the European Union keep piling up. Last year, the country experienced its slowest economic growth in a decade, according to a new report from the Bank of England that, predictably, attributed the slump to the “fog of Brexit.” Those clouds will probably stick around this week as Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain continues her dogged efforts to patch up the tattered proposal. European leaders said they wouldn’t renegotiate the deal, but now they’re vaguely open to “talks.” Of course, the major sticking point — the border between the Irelands — remains part of the plan, so you can guess how those discussions will go. What Else?Data from pharmacies in different neighborhoods shows that rich people buy different prescription drugs than poor ones. Apple has fixed the glitch that allowed people to eavesdrop on each other’s FaceTime calls and thanked the 14-year-old who discovered it by offering to pay for his education. Instacart, which offers delivery services through an app, backed off its policy to count customers’ tips toward its workers’ minimum wages — a victory for members of the gig economy. And finally, Carlos Ghosn, the disgraced former chairman of the automaker Renault, may have spent 50,000 euros (about $57,000) on his own lavish wedding at the Palace of Versailles in 2016. You’ve got to hand it to him — it looks like a great party.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page BU2 of the New York edition. 

When All of My Friends Were Still Alive - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperWhen All of My Friends Were Still AliveAdvertisementSupported byAt WarWhen All of My Friends Were Still Alive In this week’s newsletter, Thomas Gibbons-Neff, a Times reporter and former Marine, shares his journal entries from February 2010 and the days leading up to Operation Moshtarak in Afghanistan. ImageMembers of Third Battalion, Sixth Marines at Camp Leatherneck preparing for a pre-dawn helicopter assault into Marjah in February 2010.CreditCreditTyler Hicks/The New York TimesBy Thomas Gibbons-NeffFeb. 8, 2019At War is a newsletter about the experiences and costs of war. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox every Friday.I have two Moleskine notebooks, from each of my deployments to Afghanistan — the first in 2008 and the second in 2009 and 2010. For each entry, you’ll find the date, a few events, maybe a map or a list of acronyms. In the back I wrote the names of our platoon dogs, the books I read and the things I was going to buy when/if I got home.Below are entries from three days that happened almost exactly nine years ago, during the 72 hours before Operation Moshtarak, the helicopter assault on the town of Marjah in Helmand Province. I was a 22-year-old rifleman with First Battalion, Sixth Marines. It was the first big mission of President Obama’s 30,000-troop surge. All of my friends were still aliveBack then we felt as if what came next would decide the end of the war, that Marjah was the Taliban’s last hold in a country that desperately wanted them gone. We were young and wrong.Our commanders told us we’d be “Marjah Marines” in a battle would be akin to Falluja in Iraq or Hue in Vietnam. Historic. In 2019, the Taliban controls Marjah again, well most of it at least, except for maybe a few Afghan Army outposts. But I think there were a few years where we built some schools and walked around with hopes of not losing our legs.Feb. 11, 2010ImageThe day I wrote this we were at Camp Dwyer, a large base in Helmand Province. It’s still a large base today. Back then it had two chow halls. I tried to video-chat with my girlfriend in one of the phone centers. A bunch of plywood cubicles with dusty DSN phones and desktops. There was a separate AT&T phone center where you could use the phones with expensive calling cards. My unit was supposed to go into Marjah that night, but the mission got pushed back.Rumor had it our landing zone had an antiaircraft gun somewhere in the area. That afternoon I checked some of the intelligence reports. First Battalion, Third Marines had cleared the five-points intersection at the northern tip of Marjah. They were a blocking force for our assault. I don’t know why I wrote “minor small-arms fire.” Maybe for some assurance?On Feb. 11 my team lined up in front of one of the cement T-walls outside our tent for a picture. Jorge left his helmet strap unbuckled. Ryan wore a bandanna. Mike looked stupid in his Oakleys, and Matt ran inside and pulled an American flag out of his pack so we could pose with it. It took quite an effort to get everyone lined up for that picture. All these years later I’m glad we did.Feb. 12, 2010ImageWith the mission scrubbed for at least a day, I wasn’t going to use it to call home. The phone-center lines were always long, and I had already said I was leaving. I didn’t want to call back just to go through the goodbyes again. We lay around on our cots. I think this was the day Josh sprayed the Punisher skull on the magazines of his MK-11 rifle. Kind of stupid, but we were all bored and scared. I think it was also the day that Josh got a letter from his on-again-off-again girlfriend. There was some hope, and he was excited about that. He held it up in the doorway, and I remember the sunlight and dust around him. Josh was killed that May.Feb. 13, 2010ImageWe left for Marjah.The Latest Stories From At WarAs a Woman Serving Alongside Green Berets, I Had No Problem Keeping Up. It Wasn’t Enough.A former Army captain recounts her work in Afghanistan alongside two teams of Green Berets — one open-minded and mission-oriented, the other prone to sexism and insularity.Feb. 5, 2019‘Sir, I Never Thought I’d See the Day I’d Be Working for a Colored Officer’These words were a jarring reminder of the prevalence of racism in the military and the United States at large.Feb. 7, 2019Afghan War Casualty Report: Feb. 1-7At least 85 pro-government forces and three civilians were killed in Afghanistan during the past week.Feb. 8, 2019Editor’s PicksTaliban Peace Talks in Moscow End With Hope the U.S. Exits, if Not Too Quickly: The most significant contact between insurgents and Afghan politicians was informal at best as the government was absent, but the Taliban offered some clarity on their positions.Army Issues New Reprimand to Leader of Green Beret Team Ambushed in Niger: An earlier admonishment against Capt. Michael Perozeni was rescinded after former Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said junior officers were punished more harshly than commanders.A Desperate Exodus From ISIS’ Final Village: A stream of families and fighters, many of them hungry or injured, are surrendering on a rocky patch of desert in southeastern Syria.Don McCullin Is a War Photographer. Just Don’t Call Him an Artist.: His camera has captured conflict from Northern Ireland to Vietnam. An exhibition at Tate Britain in London shows some of his finest work.Trump’s Plan for U.S. Forces in Iraq Met With Unified Rejection in Baghdad: President Trump’s plan for American troops in Iraq to “watch Iran” was roundly rejected by Iraq’s political establishment, with some calling on Parliament to act quickly to push out the Americans.They Have Worked on Conflicts Overseas. Now These Americans See ‘Red Flags’ at Home.: A growing group of conflict prevention experts, many from war zones abroad, are beginning to apply their peacemaking skills to the American political divide.The Black Sergeant and the White Judge Who Changed Civil Rights History: “Unexampled Courage,” by Richard Gergel, is a riveting account of the 1946 legal case that spurred the federal government to act in defense of racial equality.Potato or Hand Grenade? A Rusty Bombshell at a Chip Factory: An unexploded bomb from World War I was discovered at a factory in Hong Kong after being harvested with potatoes in France.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to atwar@nytimes.com. Or invite someone to subscribe through this link. Read more from At War here or follow us on Twitter.Thomas Gibbons-Neff is a reporter in the Washington bureau and a former Marine infantryman.
@tmgneff A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A2 of the New York edition with the headline: When All of My Friends Were Alive. 

For Trump, the State of the Union Is a Spectacle, and He Is Ready for It - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|For Trump, the State of the Union Is a Spectacle, and He Is Ready for ItAdvertisementSupported byFor Trump, the State of the Union Is a Spectacle, and He Is Ready for ItImagePresident Trump giving his State of the Union address last year.CreditCreditGabriella Demczuk for The New York TimesBy Annie Karni and Maggie HabermanFeb. 4, 2019WASHINGTON — He likes the instant gratification of Twitter tirades to prefab statements from his press office.He prefers improvising at a political rally to earnest policy addresses.But on Monday, President Trump was doing a fairly unusual thing, for him: working on a draft of a speech and then practicing delivering it.After spending part of the weekend at Mar-a-Lago, his club in Palm Beach, Fla., working on the speech, Mr. Trump spent two hours going over it with Stephen Miller, his chief policy adviser, in the Oval Office, according to his private schedule. He also spent time on Monday practicing in the Map Room with a handful of senior administration officials. He was expected to do another teleprompter-and-lectern practice session there on Tuesday, with his aides giving him notes.His acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney; his son-in-law, Jared Kushner; his press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders; and his communications director, Bill Shine, have all been involved in the process.Mr. Trump, aides said, views the speech and all of the pomp and circumstance that accompany it with some reverence, and aides said he puts more time into his script because it is one instance where he usually sticks to it. For all of the president’s fabled norm-busting, there are aspects of the conventional presidency that appeal to him, none more so than standing in the hallowed halls of Congress, with all eyes on him speaking to the nation.From the cheers that erupt as the House clerk announces the entrance of the president of the United States to the lawmakers lining up for autographs as he departs, the cinematic aspect of the annual tradition is one piece of the presidency that Mr. Trump embraces rather than disrupts, according to more than a half-dozen current and former aides.In fact, the dark-wood venue and the history of the address appeal so much to Mr. Trump that his reluctance to deliver the speech in an alternative venue — something that was briefly discussed in the White House after Speaker Nancy Pelosi initially canceled the speech because of the partial government shutdown — was part of Mr. Trump’s calculus for reopening, at least temporarily, the government.“The State of the Union gives the president a unique opportunity to speak directly to the American people prime time and unfiltered by the press or D.C. chattering class,” said Raj Shah, a former White House spokesman. “He can use it to turn the page and speak to the unifying, patriotic and optimistic themes that have worked well for him in previous addresses.”White House officials have previewed a speech that they say will lean into a bipartisan and optimistic vision for the country, even as they have conceded that immigration will be a major theme of the night, and that the speech-writing process has been directed by Mr. Miller, his hard-right adviser.Mr. Trump, meanwhile, has teased his address as a place to declare a national emergency, something that his own aides and Republican lawmakers have warned him against, and where he might also announce the details of a second summit meeting with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. In an interview on Sunday, Mr. Trump said he would not reveal the details of that meeting, but noted, “You’ll be finding out probably State of the Union or shortly before.”Last year’s address was punctuated by the death of Otto Warmbier, the American student who was killed in North Korean custody. At the time, Mr. Trump gave a saber-rattling address condemning the brutality of the North Korean government, and saluting Mr. Warmbier’s parents, who were his guests. Since then, however, Mr. Trump has sought common cause with Mr. Kim, and it is unclear how the relationship will factor into the speech.Those teasers from the president, coupled with Mr. Trump’s propensity to change his mind, have made White House officials who have seen a draft of the speech cautious about saying definitively what will be in it in the end.Mr. Trump’s prep work still pales in comparison to the effort some of his predecessors put into the State of the Union speech. For weeks leading up to the address, President Barack Obama would stay up late handwriting portions of his speech on yellow legal pads and bringing them to the Oval Office in the morning for his speechwriter to incorporate, according to former aides.Mr. Trump does not write out his speech in longhand. But he is unusually involved in different drafts and updates, and he has a familiarity with the changing versions. In 2017, before his first address in front of a joint session of Congress, Mr. Trump grew frustrated when he realized he was reading off an old draft and that the latest revisions had not been incorporated into the text that he had been practicing.“Why am I here?” he barked at his aides in frustration.For a White House with a poorly organized policy process, the president’s interest in the State of the Union address has also become a helpful vehicle to try to set a legislative and foreign policy agenda. Last year, however, some of the promises that Mr. Trump made in his speech — uniting Republicans and Democrats behind a $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan, for instance — fell by the wayside as his interest in his own stated policies waned.This year, there has also been concern among the president’s allies that Mr. Miller, who in previous years has bristled at losing control of the speech-writing process, has been trying to reassert himself as the final voice on a speech that will most likely lean heavily on immigration.One person familiar with the process said that there was a discussion about including a proposal for a broad immigration overhaul legislative package, something that Mr. Trump has indicated in the past two weeks that he is reluctant to seek as part of the current congressional negotiations.And the setting will no doubt loom large as it did in 2018.“Freedom stands tall over one more monument: this one,” Mr. Trump said last year. “This Capitol. This living monument. This is the monument to the American people.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A15 of the New York edition with the headline: President, Who Prefers to Improvise, Hunkers Down With His Big Speech. 

‘Women Here Are Very, Very Worried’ - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|‘Women Here Are Very, Very Worried’AdvertisementSupported bynews analysis‘Women Here Are Very, Very Worried’Afghan women used to be championed by almost everyone. Now they’re all but forgotten. ImageThe issue of protecting the expanded rights of Afghan women is not a part of peace talks between the Taliban and the United States.CreditCreditParwiz/ReutersBy Susan ChiraMs. Chira is a senior correspondent and editor on gender issues for The New York Times.March 22, 2019It was once a prominent and bipartisan cause: the liberation of Afghan women from the tyranny of the Taliban.These women were championed by an array of strange bedfellows: feminists like Eleanor Smeal, celebrities like Lily Tomlin and stalwarts of a conservative administration like Laura Bush and Dick Cheney.In the early days of the invasion, the world heard vivid stories of the changes the war had brought. Women could walk freely outside their houses and put on makeup; girls could go to school. It was a narrative that helped buoy public support for the fight in Afghanistan and deflect criticism about American empire.In November 2001, as American troops were fighting to drive Al Qaeda out of the country and topple the Taliban government, Mrs. Bush was given the megaphone of the president’s weekly radio address. “Only the terrorists and the Taliban forbid education to women,” she said. “Only the terrorists and the Taliban threaten to pull out women’s fingernails for wearing nail polish.”Nearly two decades later, Afghan women are all but invisible to an American public thoroughly weary of the war. The future of Afghan women was not on the American agenda for its peace talks with the Taliban — they have been limited to core security issues of terrorism and American military presence. And there is agreement among many Democratic presidential candidates about leaving Afghanistan. Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Amy Klobuchar joined male presidential hopefuls in voting against a Senate rebuke of President Trump’s plans for swift withdrawal from Afghanistan and Syria.In 2004, Nasrine Gross, an Afghan women’s rights activist, was among those fighting to include a clause on women’s equality in Afghanistan’s Constitution. Today she wonders whether all the support she thought Afghan women had from America was just a fig leaf, a way to make military intervention more palatable to the American public via photographs of girls going to school.“How angry I am, how anguished I am,” Ms. Gross said last month. She predicted an expansion of Taliban control and a return to past atrocities like stonings and whippings. “Where are these American women?”It may seem that American priorities have changed and that past concerns for all the girls who couldn’t go to school simply dissipated as the war dragged on. But it’s also worth noting that years of well-publicized Taliban repression of women in Afghanistan did not prompt the American invasion; Sept. 11 did.Afghan women were never at the heart of American strategic interests, said Barnett Rubin, an Afghanistan expert at New York University who worked on Afghan issues in the Obama administration. Military goals came first.“You do things for people in order to get a permissive environment to help your military operation,” he said.Still, many in the administration did support the idea of expanding rights for women, and the United States, along with European governments and nongovernmental organizations, allocated substantial aid toward that end. The aid has made a real difference. In the 17 years since the invasion, education for girls has spread; today they make up about 40 percent of the country’s elementary school students and about 35 percent of its middle and high school students, according to the Feminist Majority Foundation, a Virginia-based organization led by Ms. Smeal that has been an advocate for Afghan women for more than two decades. Women now make up nearly a third of civil servants, according to the foundation, and have been encouraged to become police officers and judges. And a network of women’s shelters has been established across the country.Yet very conservative attitudes prevail in many areas outside Kabul, the capital, and women who enter men’s worlds like law enforcement have often been attacked or threatened.In the current peace talks, the United States wants a Taliban promise not to shelter terrorist groups like Al Qaeda in exchange for a military withdrawal. It is leaving other issues like women’s rights to separate talks, not yet even agreed to, between the Taliban and the Afghan government, which pledges to preserve women’s progress.Signals from the Taliban have been discouraging. In interviews, diplomats speak about a group that seems emboldened. Mariam Safi, director of the Organization for Policy Research and Development Studies in Kabul, said she was told that during talks in Moscow with Afghans who are not part of the government, the Taliban said women could go to school and hold political office but not become judges or president. They regard the Constitution, with its commitment to women’s equality, as illegitimate and imposed by America.Afghan women are speaking up, at home and abroad. They are insisting they be at the negotiating table during future talks; more than 700 gathered recently to urge that the peace they desire not come at their expense.“The talks are behind closed doors — it’s not transparent,” said Sima Samar, chairwoman of the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission. “We’ve heard nothing about the discussion of women. The Taliban keep saying we will give women rights based in Shariah. Women here are very, very worried and I think we are all united in saying we are not going back.”Both Ms. Smeal and Mrs. Bush have continued to speak out about Afghan women over the years, but Ms. Smeal said the absence of women’s rights from the talks’ agenda so far has infused a new sense of urgency. “Now we’re all waking up to the problem,” she said.Ms. Smeal said she was talking to members of Congress, bringing up the issue at the United Nations and trying to reignite bipartisan alarm, including signing a letter objecting to the withdrawal plans along with a scholar from the conservative American Enterprise Institute. Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire and the only woman on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was among several Democrats who wrote a letter urging that the Trump administration ensure that women’s rights are protected during withdrawal negotiations.But neither the public nor the Trump administration seems to be listening — at least not so far.Ms. Safi and Dr. Rubin pointed out that Afghan women have been victims of 40 years of war — killed during Taliban attacks and American and Afghan troops’ night raids or bombings.Dr. Rubin believes a political settlement between the Afghan government and the Taliban is the only answer because the Taliban are not going away; he argues for a gradual withdrawal to ensure the Taliban live up to their commitments. “Don’t think the U.S. is going to protect you from your own fellow Afghans forever,” he said. “The best fight for women’s rights is not to wage wars that cost hundreds of billions of dollars. It’s not like war is good for women.”Afghan women do, indeed, long for peace. But the Taliban’s track record leaves them wary, and they fear that the United States, like other great powers, sided with them only when convenient and is all too ready to abandon them when it is not.“Women were pawns in the game in 2001,” Ms. Safi said. “And now they are again.”More coverage from Opinion on AfghanistanOpinion | Robert D. KaplanTime to Get Out of AfghanistanJan. 1, 2019Opinion | Mariam Safi and Muqaddesa YourishWhat Is Wrong With Afghanistan’s Peace ProcessFeb. 20, 2019Opinion | Ahmed RashidThis Man Is Revered Among the Taliban. Can He End the Afghan War?Jan. 28, 2019The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Correction: March 22, 2019An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated which parties to the war in Afghanistan are now having peace talks. They are the Taliban and the United States, not the Taliban and the Afghan government.Susan Chira is a senior correspondent and editor covering gender issues, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.
@SusanChira A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR7 of the New York edition with the headline: ‘Women Here Are Very, Very Worried’. 

Trump to Nominate Kelly Knight Craft as U.N. Ambassador - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Trump to Nominate Kelly Knight Craft as U.N. AmbassadorAdvertisementSupported byTrump to Nominate Kelly Knight Craft as U.N. AmbassadorImageKelly Knight Craft in 2017 during her swearing-in ceremony as the United States’ ambassador to Canada.CreditCreditAlex Brandon/Associated PressBy Annie Karni and Dan BilefskyFeb. 22, 2019WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Friday that he was nominating Kelly Knight Craft, the United States ambassador to Canada, to succeed Nikki R. Haley as ambassador to the United Nations, days after his first choice for the position withdrew from consideration.Mr. Trump announced the nomination on Twitter, writing that Ms. Craft “has done an outstanding job representing our Nation and I have no doubt that, under her leadership, our Country will be represented at the highest level.”Ms. Craft’s elevation to the ambassador post at the 193-member United Nations would fill one yawning vacancy in the Trump administration’s diplomatic corps but leave another in Canada, where the relationship with the United States under Mr. Trump has been buffeted by trade disputes and other issues.She also would be taking up the United Nations position at a time when doubts have grown, among America’s allies and adversaries alike, about the Trump administration’s commitment to large multilateral institutions like the one she has been nominated to sit in.Ms. Craft and her husband, Joseph W. Craft III, a billionaire Kentucky coal magnate, were major contributors to Mr. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and donated to his inaugural committee. In total, the couple donated more than $2 million to Mr. Trump’s candidacy and inauguration.Ms. Craft, who turns 57 on Sunday, made her name in Kentucky politics as a fund-raiser for Republican candidates and officeholders. She and Mr. Craft are close to Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, who is the de facto head of the state party in his home state of Kentucky.Mr. McConnell had urged the president to choose Ms. Craft to succeed Ms. Haley, the former governor of South Carolina, who announced her resignation in October and left the job at the end of the year.“The president made an exceptional choice for this critical post,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trump announced his choice. “Kelly Craft is a strong advocate for American interests and will be a powerful representative of our great nation at the U.N.”Mr. Trump’s first pick for the position, Heather Nauert, a spokeswoman at the State Department and former “Fox & Friends” host, dropped from the running on Saturday night, in part because she had a nanny who was in the United States legally but did not have the proper work visa, according to people familiar with the process. Ms. Nauert had initially declined when approached about the position. But after Mr. Trump failed to find other candidates to fill the post and pressed her, she accepted, disclosing the potential issue to investigators at the beginning of the background check, according to people involved in the process.A renewed push then began for Ms. Craft, with advocates telling the president that she would have a smooth confirmation since she was recently confirmed by the Senate for her post in Canada. She also has some prior experience at the United Nations, having served as an alternate delegate to the world organization under the administration of President George W. Bush.Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, said in a statement that “Ambassador Craft has been an outstanding advocate for America’s national security and economic interests in Canada and she is extremely well qualified to do the same at the United Nations.”John R. Bolton, the national security adviser and a former United Nations ambassador himself, backed the choice of Ms. Craft, according to a person familiar with the process.After Ms. Nauert removed herself from the running, many Trump allies and former officials who represent Mr. Trump’s base made a public push for Richard Grenell, the ambassador to Germany, to get the nod. Those voices included Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager, and Sean Spicer, the former White House press secretary. Mr. Grenell was at the White House this week for meetings with senior administration officials, according to an administration official. But Mr. Trump had expressed hesitation about removing him from his post in Germany.The United Nations ambassador position is not expected to remain a cabinet-level post, as it was under Ms. Haley.Nonetheless, the post of ambassador to the United Nations is one of the most high-profile diplomatic positions in any White House administration, and in some ways the person holding the post is America’s face to the world.As ambassador to Canada since the end of 2017, Ms. Craft served in the role during one of the most acrimonious periods in relations between Canada and the United States — a period buffeted by tortuous trade negotiations and rhetorical skirmishes during which President Trump referred to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as “very dishonest and weak” and accused him of making up “false statements.”Partly because of the acrimony, Ms. Craft kept a conspicuously low profile compared with previous American ambassadors, and adeptly sought to play up the strong historical ties between the two countries — at a time when many Canadians felt antipathy toward her boss.“She has a pretty tough road as ambassador at a time when the relationship took a definite turn for the worse, and she handled the challenge with tact and grace,” said Fen Hampson, a professor of international affairs at Carleton University, who had met Ms. Craft a few times. “There wasn’t really a defining moment of her ambassadorship,” he added.Before she arrived, the Fourth of July party at the American ambassador’s official residence was one of the must-go-to social events of the year in Ottawa, with 4,000 people invited to the event hosted by Bruce Heyman, her predecessor under President Barack Obama.Ms. Craft officiated at a more streamlined, modest affair after it was boycotted by several Canadian officials, including Mayor Jim Watson of Ottawa, and Jagmeet Singh, the leader of the New Democratic Party, amid the trade tensions and Mr. Trump’s perceived bullying of Canada.Speaking at the party, Ms. Craft made the best of it, invoking Thomas Jefferson. “I have never considered a difference of opinion in politics, in religion, in philosophy as a cause for withdrawing from a friend,” she said.Displaying a sense of humor, Ms. Craft also suggested guests take a “sip of good ol’ Kentucky bourbon” to help smooth the friendship, she was quoted as saying by The Globe and Mail.Ms. Craft, who was known in Ottawa for her love of jogging and horses, has also shown an adeptness for soothing the targets of the president’s well-known belligerence. After Mr. Trump drew headlines in Canada for complaining about the negotiating style of Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland, Ms. Craft came her to defense, saying that she had tremendous respect for the minister.“She’s smart, articulate and has been a good friend since my arrival in Ottawa,” she told The Canadian Press.Annie Karni reported from Washington, and Dan Bilefsky from Montreal. Rick Gladstone contributed reporting from New York. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A7 of the New York edition with the headline: Ambassador To Canada Is Nominated For the U.N.. 

Don’t Fight the Robots. Tax Them. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|Don’t Fight the Robots. Tax Them.AdvertisementSupported bynews analysisDon’t Fight the Robots. Tax Them.Many companies invest in automation because the tax code encourages it, not because robots are more productive.ImageCreditCreditAndy RementerBy Eduardo PorterMr. Porter is an economics writer for The Times.Feb. 23, 2019When Bill Gates floated the idea of imposing a tax on robots a couple of years ago, Lawrence Summers, a former top economic adviser to President Barack Obama, called the Microsoft co-founder “profoundly misguided.” How do you even define a robot to tax it? And taxing innovation is a sure way to make a country poorer. Europe has also rejected the idea. In 2017 the European Parliament soundly defeated a draft motion, proposed by its committee on legal affairs, that recommended considering a tax on the owners of robots to fund retraining programs for workers displaced by the machines and shore up the finances of their social security system. And yet properly constructed, a tax on automation may not be as destructive as it sounds. South Korea, the most robotized country in the world, instituted a robot tax of sorts in 2018 when it reduced the tax deduction on business investments in automation. There are two sound arguments for taxing robots.
The easiest is this: Governments need the money. In the United States, income taxes account for half of the $3 trillion collected every year by the Internal Revenue Service; payroll taxes account for another third.Imagine that the fears about robots taking over jobs actually come true. Two years ago, the McKinsey Global Institute found that the job functions that are “most susceptible to automation” in the United States account for 51 percent of the activities in the economy and $2.7 trillion worth of wages. The institute estimates “half of today’s work activities could be automated by 2055.” If that happens, hundreds of billions of tax dollars would be lost every year.And at the same time that the rise of robots shrinks government tax revenue, the fallout from automation will place more demands on government services. The United States will probably need more money to retrain workers bumped from their jobs by automation, to give them a shot at a new one. Welfare rolls could grow, as millions of workers are displaced to the bottom end of the service economy, where wages are low and robots are scarce. To afford any kind of government services in the robot era, governments will have to find something else to tax. Why not the robots themselves?The case for taxing robots is stronger when you consider that a lot of automation these days is not deployed to enhance economic productivity. Instead, many businesses are investing in automation simply because the tax code is urging them to do so.The purpose of taxing robots is not simply to stop them from killing jobs. It is to level the playing field, to ensure that investments in automation raise productivity. “The tax system incentivizes automation even in cases where it is not otherwise efficient,” wrote Ryan Abbott and Bret Bogenschneider of the University of Surrey School of Law in Britain, in an analysis of tax policy toward automation in the United States and other rich countries. “The vast majority of tax revenues are now derived from labor income, so firms avoid taxes by eliminating employees.”Daron Acemoglu, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, explains that automation often produces benefits of dubious value to the business itself. More important, he suggests that the investment in technologies designed to replace workers has come at the expense of alternative investments that might find more productive uses for human labor. This may help explain the sluggishness in overall productivity growth across the economy. One powerful reason that businesses deploy so many robots, despite their sometimes questionable contribution to the bottom line, is that automation is subsidized. “Subsidies induce firms to substitute capital for labor even when this is not socially cost-saving, though it is privately beneficial because of the subsidy,” Professor Acemoglu and his co-author, Pascual Restrepo, wrote. The tax subsidies to robots are varied. For starters, machines don’t incur payroll taxes, which are used to fund Social Security and Medicare. For every worker replaced by a robot, the employer saves on payroll taxes. The federal tax code and many state governments allow companies to use “accelerated depreciation” for capital investments, which allows them to deduct the cost of their robots faster than they could deduct the wage of the payroll of the workers they replace.This means that eliminating the tax break for robots would not hurt economic growth. It would, in fact, improve economic efficiency. By subsidizing capital investment, the government is encouraging businesses to use capital when they otherwise would not, to replace workers with machines. That might be rational for the individual business reaping the tax benefits. But as Professor Acemoglu put it, across the economy, this kind of spending on automation “shows up as a productivity loss.”What’s more, curbing businesses’ pumped-up enthusiasm for robots might help mitigate the broader social costs of automation, which has flushed so many workers into unproductive occupations where cheap labor still holds an edge and knocked many more out of the labor force entirely.What is the best way to change the tax incentives for robots? One solution would be to disallow accelerated depreciation for investments in automation. Professors Abbott and Bogenschneider propose that businesses with high levels of worker automation could have their tax depreciation automatically reduced beyond a certain threshold.Businesses that use robots to replace workers could also be required to cover the payroll taxes of workers knocked out by automation, as proposed by the technology analyst William Meisel. A tax calibrated according to the ratio of a company’s profit to its employee compensation could match the wage taxes avoided by automation. Companies deploying robots could also be required to pay some kind of fee, just as employers that lay off workers must subsequently pay more into the unemployment insurance system.In practice, taxing automation is likely to be difficult. Taxing robots would, first of all, require defining what robots are. Would a robot tax also apply to, say, machine tools? Regardless of where we drew the line, a robot tax could distort investment decisions in other ways.Nonetheless, there is a wide gap between the way that the tax code treats human labor and the way it treats automation. The hole could be filled by reducing tax subsidies on capital investment altogether. Taxes on labor could also be reduced. We may not want to tax innovation, but there is no reason to subsidize investments that are designed merely to take away jobs. At the very least, a tax on robots would force businesses to think harder about when and where to deploy them.relatedMore on robotsOpinion | Ed Finn: A Smarter Way to Think About Intelligent MachinesNov. 15, 2018Opinion | Andy Clark: We Are Merging With Robots. That’s a Good Thing. Aug. 13, 2018Will Robots Take Our Children’s Jobs?Dec. 11, 2017Eduardo Porter, an economics writer for The Times, is the author of a forthcoming book about race and the American social contract.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Eduardo Porter joined The Times in 2004 from The Wall Street Journal. He has reported about economics and other matters from Mexico City, Tokyo, London and São Paulo.
@portereduardo A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR5 of the New York edition with the headline: Don’t Fight the Robots. Tax Them.. 

A Timeline of Colin Kaepernick vs. the N.F.L. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSportsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSports|A Timeline of Colin Kaepernick vs. the N.F.L.AdvertisementSupported byA Timeline of Colin Kaepernick vs. the N.F.L.Key moments in Kaepernick’s protests during the national anthem and the league’s response.ImageColin Kaepernick kneeling during the national anthem on Sept. 1, 2016.CreditCreditChris Carlson/Associated PressBy Victor MatherFeb. 15, 2019When Colin Kaepernick sat during the national anthem at an N.F.L. preseason game in 2016, it began a controversy that would involve dozens of players and owners, athletes in other sports and politicians, including the president of the United States.His gesture has led to two and a half years of protests, formal grievances and vigorous denunciations. With a settlement announced Friday in Kaepernick’s grievance case against the N.F.L., one chapter in the saga has come to an end. A timeline:Aug. 26, 2016 Kaepernick, a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, remains seated during the national anthem for a home preseason game.“I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” he tells NFL Media.Kaepernick had been outspoken about issues like protests by white supremacists and police shootings of unarmed black men.“If they take football away, my endorsements from me, I know that I stood up for what is right,” he says.The league initially responds by saying, “Players are encouraged but not required to stand during the playing of the national anthem.”Kaepernick’s act draws praise and criticism. Drew Brees, the quarterback of the New Orleans Saints, tells ESPN: “He can speak out about a very important issue. But there’s plenty of other ways that you can do that in a peaceful manner that doesn’t involve being disrespectful to the American flag.”Sept. 1, 2016Kaepernick kneels for the anthem in a preseason game in San Diego, instead of sitting, and is joined by a teammate, Eric Reid. He also announces he will donate $1 million to charitable organizations.“Once again, I’m not anti-American,” Kaepernick says. “I love America. I love people. That’s why I’m doing this. I want to help make America better.”Kaepernick is booed throughout the game by the home Chargers fans.Sept. 5, 2016President Barack Obama defends Kaepernick, saying, “I think he cares about some real, legitimate issues that have to be talked about.”Two days later, Roger Goodell, the commissioner of the N.F.L., is more equivocal. Referring to Kaepernick, he tells The Associated Press, “I don’t necessarily agree with what he’s doing.”“I support our players when they want to see change in society, and we don’t live in a perfect society,” he adds. “On the other hand, we believe very strongly in patriotism in the N.F.L. I personally believe very strongly in that.”ImageMegan Rapinoe, the national team soccer player, knelt during the national anthem before a game between the United States and the Netherlands on Sept. 18, 2016.CreditKevin C. Cox/Getty ImagesImageMembers of the Miami Dolphins knelt during the anthem before a game against the New England Patriots in 2016.CreditMaddie Meyer/Getty ImagesSept. 11, 2016In Week 1 of the regular season, several more players kneel or raise a fist during the anthem. Four days later, Megan Rapinoe of the United States women’s national soccer team also kneels during the anthem. The entire Indiana Fever team of the W.N.B.A. kneels as well, as do other athletes around the country, including, over the next month, some high school players.Jan. 1, 2017 Kaepernick protests throughout the N.F.L. season. He winds up starting 11 games, and the 49ers finish 2-14. Though the team is bad, Kaepernick’s adjusted yards per pass figure is a respectable 7.2. He has not played since.March 2017Kaepernick opts out of his contract, hoping for a better situation. But no offers come, though very average quarterbacks like Mark Sanchez, Mike Glennon, Josh McCown and E.J. Manuel find jobs.Many suggest Kaepernick is being blackballed.Aug. 9, 2017The preseason begins with Kaepernick still unsigned. Anthem protests continue, in part prompted by deadly violence in Charlottesville, Va. “The national anthem is a special moment to me,” Goodell says. “It’s a point of pride. That is a really important moment. But we also have to understand the other side that people do have rights and we want to respect those.”Sept. 24, 2017Anthem protests reach their peak after President Trump says those players who do not stand for the anthem should be fired. Many players skip the national anthem altogether. Dozens of others kneel or lock arms on the sideline, joined, in some cases, by team owners.Protests continue through the season, and Trump continues to fault the league for not disciplining players.Oct. 15, 2017Kaepernick, still unsigned, files a grievance against the N.F.L., accusing all 32 teams of colluding to keep him out of the league.April 25, 2018N.F.L. owners, players and league executives meet to discuss the protests. An audio recording obtained by The New York Times reveals that players are aggrieved that Kaepernick has not found a job. Owners are intent on finding a way to avoid Trump’s continued criticism and say that large numbers of fans and sponsors have become angry about the protests.May 2, 2018Reid, one of the players at the N.F.L. meeting, files a grievance against the N.F.L., saying the league has blackballed him. He is joined by the players’ union. (Reid is signed by Carolina in late September and plays in 13 games.)May 23, 2018N.F.L. owners rule that players can no longer kneel during the national anthem without leaving themselves open to punishment. But the league also says athletes can stay in the locker room while it is being performed.Trump says that he is pleased with the N.F.L.’s new policy, but that he does not think the players should be staying in the locker room in protest. If a player is not standing for the national anthem, Trump says, “maybe you shouldn’t be in the country.”In July, the union files a grievance over the policy.Aug. 9, 2018A handful of players protests as the preseason begins, drawing more condemnation from Trump.Aug. 30, 2018Kaepernick achieves an important win in his grievance against the N.F.L. An arbitrator, Stephen B. Burbank, says lawyers for Kaepernick had unearthed enough information for the case to proceed to a full hearing.Sept. 3, 2018Kaepernick becomes the face and voice of Nike’s latest “Just Do It” campaign. Like so much else involving him over the previous two years, it draws praise and condemnation.ImagePeople walked by a Nike advertisement featuring Colin Kaepernick in New York in September. CreditMark Lennihan/Associated PressFeb. 3, 2019During the Super Bowl, Kaepernick posts on his social media accounts images of athletes and celebrities wearing #imwithkap jerseys supporting his cause.Feb. 15, 2019The N.F.L. reaches settlements with Kaepernick and Reid in their grievance cases. Terms of the settlements are not disclosed, and the players and the league reach a confidentiality agreement.Victor Mather is a general assignment sports reporter and editor.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: The Anthem Uproar Goes Into Overtime. 

Opinion | Will There Be Smoking Guns in the Mueller Report? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|Will There Be Smoking Guns in the Mueller Report?AdvertisementOpinionSupported byWill There Be Smoking Guns in the Mueller Report? I’ve followed the investigation closely. Here’s what I’ll be looking for. By Quinta JurecicMs. Jurecic is the managing editor of Lawfare. March 9, 2019ImageRobert Mueller.CreditCreditCharles Dharapak/Associated PressAny week now, any day now — so the news reports go — the special counsel’s office will file the Mueller report.It will round out a trilogy. In 1974, to inform its impeachment proceedings, Congress received what became known as the “road map,” a terse document from the office of the Watergate special prosecutor Leon Jaworski detailing evidence of wrongdoing by President Richard Nixon. In 1998, another investigator submitted a report on a president’s potentially impeachable offenses to Congress: a narrative from the independent counsel Kenneth Starr of Bill Clinton’s misconduct.Following Justice Department regulations, the special counsel Robert Mueller will submit a “confidential report” to the attorney general, Bill Barr. Mr. Barr will decide how much of it to share with Congress and with the world at large.Assuming that some significant portion of the report becomes public, and that it provides an additional factual record beyond what we already know, the question will quickly become how to identify any smoking guns. I’ve spent the last year and a half following the investigation. Here’s a partial list of what I’ll be looking for:The ‘Moscow Project’ In November 2015, according to Mr. Mueller, Michael Cohen, then Mr. Trump’s lawyer, was put in touch with a Russian man who promised Mr. Cohen “political synergy” and “repeatedly proposed a meeting” between Mr. Trump and the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to help with efforts to construct a Trump Tower Moscow. In January 2016, the office of a “high-level Russian official” — most likely, according to reports, of Mr. Putin’s spokesman Dmitri Peskov — reached out to Mr. Cohen about the project, and efforts on it continued at least into the summer of 2016.How closely were Mr. Trump and his children involved in the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations, and over what period? How much did they know of or encourage Mr. Cohen’s contacts with the Russian government — including tentative plans for a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin? How did the Trump family and campaign understand the connection between the “Moscow project” and Mr. Trump’s political ambitions?Mr. Mueller estimated in a court filing that Trump Tower Moscow could have generated “hundreds of millions of dollars from Russian sources in licensing fees and other revenues” — an unusually large profit for the Trump Organization. Why was the number so atypically high? “Dirt” on ClintonIn spring 2016, according to the special counsel, a professor linked to the Russian government told the Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos that Russia had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton in the form of “thousands of emails.” Around this time, the special counsel’s indictment of Russian military intelligence officials shows that the Russian government had hacked into networks and accounts belonging to the Democratic Party and the Clinton campaign, and would soon begin coordinating with WikiLeaks to disseminate the stolen information. In June, Donald Trump Jr. met with a Kremlin-linked lawyer at Trump Tower in New York in what seems to have been a failed effort to get similar “dirt.”Who else in the campaign did Mr. Papadopoulos tell about his scoop, and how high did that knowledge go? Did Donald Trump Jr. inform his father of his plans before the meeting? Roger Stone and WikiLeaksMr. Mueller’s indictment of the Trump adviser Roger Stone alleges that Mr. Stone worked throughout the summer of 2016 to get in touch with WikiLeaks and became aware of the organization’s plans to disclose hacked information. Mr. Cohen claimed in his testimony to Congress that he was in the room when Mr. Stone informed Mr. Trump that WikiLeaks was planning a “massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign.”Was Mr. Stone coordinating with the campaign in his efforts to get information from WikiLeaks? How much did Mr. Trump know about what Mr. Stone had found out? And who in the campaign, if anyone, might have been aware of separate efforts by the Republican operative Peter Smith to obtain additional Clinton emails from sources Mr. Smith believed were Russian hackers?Flynn’s Promises to Moscow The national security adviser Michael Flynn was fired just 24 days into his tenure over fallout from his transition-period contacts with the Russian ambassador at the time, Sergey Kislyak — a matter about which he later pleaded guilty to lying to federal investigators. When he promised Mr. Kislyak that Mr. Trump would lift sanctions on Russia imposed by the departing Obama administration, was Mr. Flynn freelancing or was he acting on the instructions of someone higher?Russian Influence Operations Almost every case that Mr. Mueller has filed has illuminated a different facet of what appears to be a systematic, long-running effort by the government of Russia to reach out to Mr. Trump’s world. It’s clear that the Kremlin was attempting to gain access and influence. Was it also out-and-out working to recruit agents within the Trump Organization and campaign?On our side of the Atlantic, to what extent was that outreach welcomed and reciprocated by the Trump team, and to what extent was Mr. Trump a passive beneficiary? Did the Trump Organization and campaign understand and respond to those instances as manifestations of a systematic effort by the Russian government or as unrelated connections with unconnected Russians?Obstruction of JusticeMr. Mueller has also reportedly conducted an investigation into potential obstruction of justice by the president: possible interference with the special counsel’s efforts, and with the F.B.I.’s before that. Mr. Barr, among others, has argued that action authorized by the Constitution — like dismissing the F.B.I. director — by definition cannot constitute obstruction. Will the report sidestep these tricky legal questions by showing efforts by Mr. Trump to derail the inquiry that fall plainly outside the scope of presidential authority? To what extent does the obstruction investigation overlap with the collusion investigation — meaning that the special counsel and the F.B.I. understood the president’s apparent efforts at obstruction as part of the troubling pattern of coordination with the Russian government that incited the investigation in the first place?What proportion of the Mueller report becomes public will hinge on many factors: how much classified information and grand jury material shielded from public disclosure it has; how much of it is arguably protected by executive privilege; to what extent it details criminal conduct, and to what extent Mr. Barr may reasonably argue that the Justice Department has an interest in protecting the privacy of those who are innocent.The Watergate “road map” first became available to the public in 2018, when a judge ordered it unsealed almost 45 years after it was handed over to Congress. The Starr Report, in contrast, was released within two days of its transmission to the legislature. With any luck, the time frame for release of the Mueller report will be closer to the latter than to the former.RelatedAnticipating the Mueller reportOpinion | Neal K. KatyalThe Mueller Report Is Coming. Here’s What to Expect.Feb. 21, 2019Opinion | J.T. Smith IIWhat if the Mueller Report Demands Bold Action?March 7, 2019Quinta Jurecic (@qjurecic) is the managing editor of Lawfare. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR3 of the New York edition with the headline: What Are Mueller’s Answers?. 

Opinion | Finding Compassion for ‘Vaccine-Hesitant’ Parents - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Finding Compassion for ‘Vaccine-Hesitant’ ParentsAdvertisementOpinionSupported byFinding Compassion for ‘Vaccine-Hesitant’ ParentsThey’re infuriating and dangerous. I try to remember they’re also the terrified victims of misinformation.By Wajahat AliContributing Opinion Writer March 7, 2019ImageCreditCreditJoe Raedle/Getty Images“Why are parents not vaccinating their kids? What the hell is wrong with people?”As a father of two young children, I’ve had outbursts like this on more than one occasion as I sit in my Play-Doh- and Lego-littered family room, reading the latest news about measles and other preventable viruses making a global comeback.This week, Senator Rand Paul, who has previously fueled the dangerous myth that vaccines cause harm by saying in 2016 that it’s “wrong to say there are no risks to vaccines,” spoke out against government-mandated vaccines at a Senate Health Committee hearing, saying, “I believe that the benefits of vaccines greatly outweigh the risks, but I still do not favor giving up on liberty for a false sense of security.” This was just days after the news that passengers might have been exposed to measles at Chicago’s Midway Airport, even though the virus has been considered eradicated in the United States since 2000. With a measles outbreak affecting over 200 people this year and a recent study proving yet again that there is no reason to believe that the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, known as M.M.R., causes autism, it’s infuriating to know that parents still resist vaccinating their children. But I know people whom I think of as otherwise intelligent and well intentioned who aren’t convinced that vaccines are safe. In the face of their dangerous choices, I’ve been thinking seriously about what I can do to get through to them. Medical professionals refer to these parents as “vaccine-hesitant.” As much satisfaction as it might offer to bring my family-room rants — What is wrong with you? — to my conversations with them, I’m starting to believe I can’t simply write them off as idiots. Even presenting facts might not be enough. Those of us who understand how important and safe vaccines are might need to meet them where they are, trying to express empathy for the misguided fear they’re obviously experiencing, if we’re to break through to them and encourage them to make choices that can save lives.This outlook is inspired by conversations I’ve had at home. My wife, Sarah, is a family medicine physician with a public health degree. She has told me that most of the skeptical parents she sees each week aren’t raving conspiracy theorists — bug-eyed stereotypes who write manifestoes in crayon, listen to Alex Jones and live off the grid. They’re people who seem to make rational choices in most other areas of their lives. “Parents are worried about the vaccine side effects,” she said. “They believe they might cause autism in their children or some debilitating illness.” “Vaccine-hesitant” parents are often influenced by a thoroughly debunked, nearly two-decade-old study that erroneously concluded that the M.M.R. vaccine is linked to autism in children. Since then, a small but highly organized and zealous group referred to as the “anti-vaxx” movement has promoted this misguided propaganda and also intimidated and harassed pro-vaccine doctors. Russia has strategically weaponized this doubt, unleashing bots on social media to spread disinformation and promote discord, creating a false equivalency between “both sides” of the debate and “eroding public consensus on vaccination.”All of this has influenced friends of mine from the Bay Area and Virginia, otherwise highly informed individuals who pride themselves on sniffing out fake news, to remain skeptical about vaccines. Sarah described their mind-set and those of the patients she sees: “The parents don’t trust big pharma. They don’t trust scientific studies, and they think evidence is always changing. They don’t understand how vaccines work. Some will be like ‘I don’t want to overload my kid’s immune system with too many shots at once.’”This global “doubt” explains why measles reached a 20-year high in Europe in the first six months of 2018. The House Committee on Energy and Commerce held a hearing last week to discuss response efforts to this “growing public health threat” that can easily be prevented. A top Washington State official just declared that the United States needs a national campaign to combat the anti-vaccination movement. Washington has recently been hit with a measles outbreak costing the state over $1 million.Part of the solution is legislation. California, for example, has a law requiring all public and private school students to be vaccinated. That being said, we’re still seeing measles cases pop up in the state. Parents in 17 states can still opt out of vaccines because of philosophical and personal exemptions. And an Arizona House committee has approved three bills to expand vaccine exemptions. It’s clear that we can’t depend on laws alone to solve this problem. I’ve begun to agree with Sarah, who believes education, personal relationships and counter-narratives are the long-term keys to success and rebuilding trust in health professionals and experts. Her mantra: “Don’t vilify, bully or mock the parents, but try to empathize and teach, and then empower them.” She encourages doctors to actually listen to their patients’ unfounded fears before jumping in with the kind of harsh critiques or judgment that can backfire and solidify their false beliefs. Instead, she suggests doctors acknowledge their concerns and build trust over time, while also providing correct information, facts and relatable personal stories.It’s obviously difficult to empathize with parents who are “vaccine-hesitant,” as they engage in reckless behavior that is far too dangerous to be left unchecked. The World Health Organization listed vaccine hesitancy as one of the top 10 global threats of 2019. And it’s important to remember that these parents are not making choices that endanger just themselves or even just their children — they’re putting vulnerable groups at risk. People who can’t receive vaccines depend on herd immunity to protect them from diseases. Still, I try to remember that some vaccine-hesitant parents are victims themselves — of misinformation spread through social media. When I meet parents who don’t believe vaccines are safe, it reminds me of my experiences talking to people who believed conspiracy theories about President Barack Obama being a Muslim born in Kenya. I’m not naïve enough to think I can change the minds of all, but I hold on to the hope that by establishing a relationship and offering facts, we can get many of them to come around. (For those who don’t, I hope they enjoyed having a Muslim president.)My wife recently persuaded a vaccine-hesitant parent to give her baby some of the four-month vaccines — but not all of them. The mom said she’ll strongly consider it next time, and there’s an appointment on the calendar. When that day comes, Sarah will try again — in a visit that starts with listening. Wajahat Ali is a playwright, lawyer and contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Swaying ‘Vaccine-Hesitant’ Parents. 

Opinion | The ‘Failed’ Summit Isn’t So Funny in Seoul - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSunday ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSunday Review|The ‘Failed’ Summit Isn’t So Funny in SeoulAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe ‘Failed’ Summit Isn’t So Funny in SeoulThe foreign policy establishment was relieved at the sudden end to the North Korean summit. But Koreans hoping for peace were crushed.By E. Tammy KimMs. Kim, a contributing opinion writer, reports frequently from South Korea.March 2, 2019ImageWatching a news broadcast in Seoul, on the second day of meetings between North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump in Hanoi, Vietnam.CreditCreditJung Yeon-Je/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesOutside the North Korean Embassy in Hanoi, a glass case displaying an array of patriotic photographs was reportedly reorganized just before Kim Jong-un’s arrival. The chairman’s portrait remained untouched at the top of the vitrine, but the images of fruit orchards and fishing boats had been swapped out for those of factories and a satellite antenna. A South Korean reporter, standing outside the embassy, observed that the new pictures seemed “tailored to fit a theme of Vietnamese-style reform and opening.”Instead, President Trump and Mr. Kim cut short their parley, ending the summit on Thursday with no agreement in hand. Much of the American foreign policy establishment, including Democratic legislators, reacted with smug surprise. Mr. Trump had been played, they said, but he was right to walk away rather than to promise too much. According to the president, North Korea had demanded a lifting of all sanctions, to which Washington could not agree. A North Korean official said Pyongyang asked for only “partial” sanctions relief. Washington’s North Korea watchers and foreign policy experts — what Ben Rhodes, President Barack Obama’s deputy national security adviser, has called the Blob — concluded that the summit was a failure and that Mr. Trump never should have met with Mr. Kim in the first place. The Blob was content.Many South Koreans, however, felt dismayed. Mr. Trump is no model statesman, and his record as president has largely been reckless and cruel. Yet in the Korean context, his bucking of foreign policy tradition (born, undoubtedly, of a quest for personal glory) has at least drawn the North into the global arena. Seoul has never had the luxury of selective dealings with Pyongyang. North Korea’s nuclear stockpiles are a less immediate threat than the mass of conventional arms lining the Demilitarized Zone, just across the border. For South Korea, sanctions against the North are not simply a virtue-signaling device, but a policy with immediate, real-world consequences: They can spur the flow of refugees out of the North, undermine efforts by the South to send food and other humanitarian assistance, and make it difficult to host inter-Korean family reunions. The pursuit of a peace treaty — to replace the 1953 armistice, to which the United States but not South Korea was a signatory — would, beyond its symbolic value, help dismantle the culture of militarism and anti-Communist paranoia that has, at times, justified repressive crackdowns in the South.Contrast that with Washington’s view, which has hardly changed in the almost seven decades since the end of the Korean War. The consensus has favored peninsular division, mutual deterrence through a heavy United States military presence in the South, and, for the most part, neglect of the North. That changed only when North Korea began its nuclear program. Denuclearization is the only real priority for the United States, the end point for all discussions with Mr. Kim. But for South Korea’s president, denuclearization is “a starting point for resolution of the Cold War on the peninsula.”RelatedMore on North KoreaHow the Trump-Kim Summit Failed: Big Threats, Big Egos, Bad BetsMarch 2, 2019Opinion: Think Military Strikes Could Stop North Korea? Try It and See.May 24, 2018Opinion | John Delury: Kim Jong-un Has a Dream. The U.S. Should Help Him Realize It.Sept. 21, 2018Opinion | Lindsey Ford: How Trump Got Outplayed on North KoreaMay 24, 2018The unceremonious end to the summit — without an agreement on nuclear policy, liaison offices, easing sanctions or a peace declaration — was thus received as a blow by South Korea and the global diaspora. Like many of my relatives and colleagues in Asia, I was willing to look past the strongman theatrics, toward a deal that might meaningfully open up North Korea. A friend in Seoul who works as an academic said she was worried that the lack of a deal would provoke right-wing attacks on President Moon Jae-in, a liberal who has faced outlandish accusations of propping up Communism. Another friend, who is active in the South Korean labor movement, cried in disappointment as he watched from New York.Other Korean observers, though, approached the summit with caution. Park Sun-song, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul, had expected small, practical gains from the summit, and not even this much was achieved. He emphasized that phrases such as “complete denuclearization” and “reduced sanctions” are shorthand for the dozens of painstaking decisions that lie ahead, about which facilities must be dismantled versus inspected, or which prohibitions on trade and investment should be lifted first. The Koreas are eager to restart their joint flagship projects in the North: tourism at Mount Kumgang and manufacturing in the Kaesong industrial complex. North Korea wants minimum security guarantees above all else, and the signing of a peace declaration could help provide such reassurance.The anticlimax in Hanoi arrived at a poignant time. Friday was the 100th anniversary of the March 1 Movement, a key uprising in Korea’s struggle against imperial Japan and the first exercise of a uniquely Korean identity, according to the historian Suzy Kim. On March 1, 1919, a cheering crowd of some 5,000 intellectuals, activists, students, families and workers gathered in Seoul’s Pagoda Park cheering, “Mansei!” (“Long Live Korea!”) The leaders read a statement asserting Korea’s independence from Japan, inspired by President Woodrow Wilson’s Fourteen Points: “We hereby declare that Korea is an independent state and that Koreans are a self-governing people.” Mass demonstrations were held across the Korean Peninsula and in Manchuria and the United States, and a provisional government was established in Shanghai, a center of the resistance. Yet Korea would have to wait until the end of World War II to gain its independence, only to be promptly divided into North and South.In the Korean imagination, March 1 conjures images of flag-waving martyrs in traditional white hanbok and nostalgia for an ethnically pure, politically uncomplicated past. This is myth, of course, but it’s convenient when it comes to dealing with North Korea. President Moon has tried to use the holiday as yet another occasion for cross-border collaboration, like last year’s Pyeongchang Olympics. He invited the North Korean leader and his entourage to come to Seoul straight from Hanoi, to celebrate March 1. But the North Koreans remained in Vietnam, invited to attend a state banquet hosted by President Nguyen Phu Trong, and to lay wreaths at the mausoleum of Vietnam’s founding president, Ho Chi Minh.The speech Mr. Moon had prepared for March 1 had to take Hanoi into account. There was no peace declaration to praise, so he spoke instead of a lesser form of reunification, a cross-border solidarity that “need not be far away.” He promised to keep working for a “new Korean Peninsula regime,” but there were few details, other than plans for an inter-Korean committee on economic development. In Vietnam, Kim Jong-un’s ministers had visited the tourist hot spot of Halong Bay and a car factory in Haiphong, which provided glimmers of the future that South Korea wants so badly for the North. What it takes to get there, though, is not entirely in Korean hands.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.E. Tammy Kim is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, and a co-author and co-editor of Punk Ethnography, a book about the politics of contemporary world music. Her work has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New York Review of Books, The Nation, The New Yorker and many other outlets.
A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR11 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Farce, Korean Tragedy. 

Stay Tuned for a Trump Split Screen Featuring Cohen and Kim - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Stay Tuned for a Trump Split Screen Featuring Cohen and KimAdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoStay Tuned for a Trump Split Screen Featuring Cohen and KimImagePresident Trump on Monday before boarding Air Force One en route to Vietnam.CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesBy Annie KarniFeb. 25, 2019WASHINGTON — President Trump will have just wrapped up the first day of his summit meeting in Vietnam with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, when back home in Washington, Michael D. Cohen, his former lawyer and fixer, takes the stand on Wednesday morning to testify publicly against him before the House Oversight Committee.Two nearly simultaneous events and two very different story lines for Mr. Trump. One involves a leader he has assiduously courted and hopes will provide him with, at the minimum, an example of his ability to make peace with the United States’ adversaries. The other involves a former associate who has already detailed the president’s secrets to the special counsel and now will share some of them with the American public.The clashing narratives follow what has become a frustrating pattern for Mr. Trump in which some of his biggest moments on the international stage have been overtaken by events at home. Foreign trips mark critical moments for every president. But for a president in search of evidence to support his claims that he has strengthened the United States’ position in the world, they have not always been the successes he had hoped to portray.From his first foreign trip as president — to Saudi Arabia in 2017 — to his meeting last summer with Queen Elizabeth II, Mr. Trump has often found himself competing for coverage with some new and dramatic turn in the scandals that have consumed his administration.On that inaugural trip, Mr. Trump left the White House for Riyadh, the Saudi capital, just as The New York Times reported that he had admitted to Russians in an Oval Office meeting that firing the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, took “great pressure” off him. The Washington Post then reported that a sitting White House official was under federal investigation for possibly colluding with the Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign.Mr. Trump was preparing to depart on a marathon five-country tour of Asia in November 2017 when the special counsel’s office made its first bombshell indictments, bringing charges against his former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, as well as two other campaign associates, Rick Gates and George Papadopoulos. The president was in Davos, Switzerland, when The Times reported that Mr. Trump had ordered the firing of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is overseeing the Russia investigation, and had backed down only when the White House counsel threatened to resign.And an honor guard was giving Mr. Trump a royal salute at Windsor Castle in July when his deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, announced the indictment of 12 Russian intelligence officers in the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign.For Mr. Trump, who is particularly concerned with winning news cycles, the summit meeting with Mr. Kim in Hanoi, Vietnam’s capital, that begins Wednesday is a major opportunity to change the subject from his losing fight with Democrats over funding for a wall along the southwestern border.But at 10 p.m. that day in Hanoi, the counternarrative will begin when Mr. Cohen starts his testimony before the House Oversight Committee about Mr. Trump’s alleged payoffs, financial disclosures, compliance with campaign finance laws and business matters. He is also expected to deliver raw, personal stories of his 10 years serving Mr. Trump.And this time, coverage of Mr. Trump’s trip abroad is not threatened to be subsumed by news reports, or by the findings of his own Justice Department, but by a Democrat-dominated congressional committee.ImageMichael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, will testify this week before Congress.CreditStephanie Keith for The New York TimesWhite House officials said House Democrats were deliberately trying to step on the summit meeting. Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, said the overlapping events were no coincidence. “After all, they are politicians,” he said in a text.A spokesman for the committee chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, did not respond to multiple requests for comment about whether the scheduling of the hearing on the same day as the meeting was done intentionally.But Lanny J. Davis, a lawyer for Mr. Cohen, said the timing was unintentional. “These dates were developed over a long period of time, with lots of stops and starts and delays,” Mr. Davis said. “We had to worry about being attacked with Trump tweets. Trump set up the first reason for the delay.”The overlapping events, he added, were “the inevitable result of having chaos every day.”And, in fact, Mr. Cohen’s testimony was rescheduled, after he postponed it twice.White House officials played down any anxiety that Mr. Cohen’s testimony would steal the spotlight from Mr. Trump. One senior administration official described Mr. Cohen as a “convicted criminal who has already lied to Congress” and said that the clear headliner of the day would be a president who is “trying to undo 70 years of war and neglect.”There is also the question of which news outlets will interrupt coverage of the meeting between the president and Mr. Kim for Mr. Cohen’s hearing. Fox News has already touted an exclusive post-meeting interview with Mr. Trump, conducted by Sean Hannity, the cable news host, as part of its extensive coverage of the event.Other current and former White House officials said they saw a silver lining: The president tends to spend less time on Twitter when he is busy overseas, where he is less consumed by any developments pertaining to the open investigations. Mr. Cohen’s testimony, which might have had Mr. Trump glued to his television in the dining room off the Oval Office if he were home, they said, could pack less punch if he is busy with Mr. Kim.Still, even people who are not natural supporters of Mr. Trump said the timing of Mr. Cohen’s hearing was unfortunate, whether it was avoidable or not. “It’s not a desirable thing that the president goes abroad and, while he’s having an international summit, his former lawyer is testifying about the alleged crimes he’s committed,” said Benjamin Wittes, the editor in chief of Lawfare, and a friend of Mr. Comey’s.The pattern, some critics of the president said, is simply a product of the number of investigations involving Mr. Trump, which have overshadowed his work both at home and abroad.“When your campaign, your transition, your charity, your business, your White House and your inaugural committee are all under investigation, there are going to be a lot of new developments,” said Matthew Miller, a former spokesman for the Obama Justice Department.For now, the White House is trying to shrug off the overlap.“I don’t think the president has any concerns whatsoever about Michael Cohen,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said last week on “Fox & Friends.” “I think Michael Cohen may need to be concerned for himself, but that’s certainly something that’s not influencing or bothering us in this building.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Stay Tuned for a Split Screen Between Vietnam and Washington. 

The Coaches Connected to the College Admissions Fraud Case - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSportsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSports|The Coaches Connected to the College Admissions Fraud CaseAdvertisementSupported byThe Coaches Connected to the College Admissions Fraud CaseSeveral current and former coaches, some with national titles and many with ties to U.S.C., were named in a federal indictment Tuesday.ImageJovan Vavic won 16 water polo championships at U.S.C.CreditCreditJuan Lainez/Cal Sport Media, via Associated PressBy Andrew Das, Marc Tracy and Naila-Jean MeyersMarch 12, 2019The coaches led soccer teams and sailing teams, guided water polo champions and budding volleyball stars. At least two had won N.C.A.A. championships. A third gave Michelle Obama and her daughters tennis lessons from his post at Georgetown. The coaches charged Tuesday in a massive federal college admissions fraud scandal were some of the most prominent in their fields. But it was their apparent willingness to exploit their access to the admissions process at several exclusive universities that has them facing federal charges. Who are they? Several had deep associations with the University of Southern California, where Donna Heinel, a senior athletic department administrator, is accused of playing a central role in the scandal. For nearly a decade, Heinel had overseen the admissions of athletes into U.S.C., working closely with several of the current and former Trojans coaches who have been indicted. She was fired Tuesday.Here is a brief look at the current and former coaches identified by a federal complaint.Jovan VavicU.S.C. water polo coachVavic won 16 national titles at U.S.C., more than any coach in university history (10 in men’s water polo, the most recent coming in December, and six in women’s water polo). He was fired Tuesday after he was arrested in connection with the admissions scheme. He had coached the women’s team, currently ranked No. 1 and the defending national champion, since 1995 and had been the sole head coach of the men’s team since 1999. A 15-time national coach of the year, Vavic was named the Pac-12 Conference’s “coach of the century” for water polo in 2015. According to the indictment, the co-conspirators in the admissions fraud paid $250,000 to an account that financed the U.S.C. water polo program, and in return Vavic recommended two students as recruits to the water polo team. The ringleader of the scheme, William Singer, known as Rick, is said to have paid the private school tuition for Vavic’s children through one of his company’s charitable accounts “under the guise of a fabricated scholarship.”Actresses, Business Leaders and Other Wealthy Parents Charged in U.S. College Entry FraudMarch 12, 2019William Singer, the Man in the Middle of the College Bribery ScandalMarch 12, 2019Lower-Profile Sports Are at Center of Admissions Cheating ScandalMarch 12, 2019Gordon ErnstFormer Georgetown tennis coachAccording to the indictment, Ernst, known as Gordie, earned more than $2.7 million between 2012 and 2018 in payments that were falsely labeled “consulting” fees. He “designated at least 12 applicants as recruits” for Georgetown’s tennis teams, court papers said, “including some who did not play competitively.” One such player, listed in the complaint, was encouraged to make playing tennis part of her application essay and claimed to be a top-50-ranking player in the U.S.T.A. for junior girls, which was not true. She was accepted at Georgetown in 2016. A spokeswoman for Georgetown said Tuesday that the university had fired Ernst in December 2017 after an internal investigation found he had violated university rules concerning admissions. Ernst, a native of Rhode Island who is in the New England Sports Hall of Fame, was named the women’s tennis coach at the University of Rhode Island last August. The university placed him on administrative leave on Tuesday. William FergusonWake Forest volleyball coachFerguson has been the women’s volleyball coach at Wake Forest since 2016. Before that, he coached the men’s team at U.S.C., winning 150 matches and leading the Trojans to three N.C.A.A. Final Fours. He was the American Volleyball Coaches Association coach of the year in 2009 and 2012. His success has not continued at Wake Forest, where he was 22-41 in his first two seasons. After Tuesday’s charges were unsealed, Wake Forest announced that he has been placed on administrative leave. Ferguson is accused of accepting $100,000 from Singer in 2017 to help Singer’s client’s daughter, who had been wait-listed by the school, gain admittance to Wake Forest as a volleyball recruit.ImageCreditGerry Broome/Associated PressJorge Salcedo U.C.L.A. men’s soccer coachSalcedo has been U.C.L.A.’s men’s soccer coach since 2004. The Bruins are one of the nation’s top programs annually, and Salcedo has produced dozens of players who have gone on to play professional soccer. A former All-American at U.C.L.A. who had a brief career in Major League Soccer and other leagues, he has been a member of the Bruins’ soccer program as either a player, assistant coach or head coach for two decades. He is accused of helping two students gain admission to U.C.L.A. as student-athletes in exchange for $200,000. The Los Angeles Times and others reported that he had been placed on leave Tuesday.Ali Khosroshahin and Laura JankeFormer U.S.C. women’s soccer coachesKhosroshahin won a national championship in his first season with the Trojans in 2007, when he was named national coach of the year, but he was fired in 2013 after missing the N.C.A.A. tournament three years in a row. U.S.C. went 8-10-2 in his final season; he was 82-53-15 over all. Janke joined Khosroshahin’s U.S.C. coaching staff as an assistant after playing for him in his previous job at Cal State-Fullerton. A biography of her at the Geffen Academy, a private school in Los Angeles for students in grades 6 through 12, lists her as the physical education department chair. A previous announcement hailed her hiring as the head of the school’s girls soccer program. In the indictment, Singer is said to have contributed $350,000 a private soccer club run by Khosroshahin and Janke in exchange for their suggesting four children of Singer’s clients as recruits. Khosroshahin and Janke were also asked to create misleading recruiting profiles and to serve as references for students who were not competitive soccer players in order to help them gain admission to other colleges. ImageRudy Meredith coached Yale's women's soccer team for more than two decades. He resigned in November.CreditDoug Engle/Star-Banner, via Associated PressRudy MeredithFormer Yale women’s soccer coachA third cooperating witness in court papers was an unnamed person whose description closely matches Meredith, who served as Yale’s women’s soccer coach from 1995 through late last year. Meredith was also a participant in the scheme, according to court filings. Meredith resigned as Yale’s coach in November after a disappointing season, but also after, the authorities said Tuesday, he had accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars of payments to facilitate the admission of a non-soccer-playing soccer recruit to Yale. When he stepped down after last season, Meredith told the university that “it is time to explore new possibilities and begin a different chapter in my life.” A month later, he was elected to the Connecticut Soccer Hall of Fame. ImageStanford fired the sailing coach John Vandemoer on Tuesday. CreditScott Eisen/Getty ImagesJohn VandemoerStanford sailing coachVandemoer is accused of taking financial contributions to his championship-winning sailing program from an intermediary in exchange for agreeing to recommend two prospective students for admission. “Neither student came to Stanford,” Stanford said in a statement Tuesday. “However, the alleged behavior runs completely counter to Stanford’s values.” Stanford said Vandemoer had been fired.Michael CenterTexas men’s tennis coachThe Longhorns have one of the top programs in the country, having reached the N.C.A.A. tournament every season since Center took over in 2000. He was placed on administrative leave Tuesday after being accused of accepting $100,000 from Singer in 2015 in exchange for recruiting a student who was not a competitive tennis player. According to court papers, the student’s application to Texas said he played one year of tennis as a freshman, but his other activities included being manager of his high school basketball and football teams. The student withdrew from the tennis team shortly after beginning classes at Texas. Correction: March 14, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated William Ferguson's position at U.S.C. He was the men's volleyball coach, not the women's volleyball coach.Marc Tracy has covered college sports for The Times since 2014. Previously he worked at Tablet Magazine and The New Republic.
@marcatracy A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B9 of the New York edition with the headline: Admissions Scandal Ensnares Dizzying List Of Prominent Coaches. 

Denver Teachers’ Strike Puts Performance-Based Pay to the Test - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexU.S.SubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperU.S.|Denver Teachers’ Strike Puts Performance-Based Pay to the TestAdvertisementSupported byDenver Teachers’ Strike Puts Performance-Based Pay to the TestImageTeachers rallied at the State Capitol in Denver last month. A districtwide strike is expected on Monday.CreditCreditDavid Zalubowski/Associated PressBy Julie Turkewitz and Dana GoldsteinFeb. 11, 2019DENVER — Amber Wilson was once an evangelist for performance-based pay systems for teachers, and went from school to school in Denver years ago, pushing her fellow educators to support one for their district.But more than a decade after the city adopted such a system, Ms. Wilson, an English teacher, says it has morphed into “a monster of unintended consequences.”Pay-for-performance models like Denver’s offer teachers bonuses for raising student achievement and for taking on tougher assignments, such as in schools with many students from low-income families. Ms. Wilson and many of her fellow educators across the country say that this model — once hailed as a way to motivate teachers — has delivered erratic bonuses while their base salaries stagnate amid rising living costs.“We’ve been experimented on, and it didn’t work,” said Ms. Wilson, 45. “And it’s time for us to say, ‘No, no, no.’”She was on a picket line in the bitter cold on Monday, striking with more than 2,000 other educators to protest the pay system she had once promoted.The strike is the first by Denver’s teachers in 25 years, and many students joined in as well, leaving their classrooms with their backpacks and marching in the street alongside their teachers.Over the last year, in red states and blue states, in big liberal cities and in tiny Appalachian towns, teachers have fought back against core tenets of education reform in the last two decades: that schools can be made better without increasing funding and that competition for resources among teachers and institutions, through school choice, is good for students.Now another one of those tenets, performance-based compensation, is under attack.Denver’s pay system, called ProComp, went into effect in 2006 and became a national model. It was developed in partnership with the Denver Classroom Teachers Association, the local union, which is now fighting it and upending the routines of more than 72,000 students with a districtwide strike.The foundational principle of ProComp — evaluating teachers according to how well their students perform — was later enshrined in Colorado law and then in Race to the Top, President Barack Obama’s signature education initiative.But such evaluation models typically required more testing of students in order to gather evidence of teacher impact — a change that was unpopular with parents, students and educators alike.Since 2016, federal and state laws have shifted districts away from using student performance to judge teachers. In many ways, ProComp is now seen as a relic of an earlier era of school reform.Denver teachers and their union leaders argue that it is more important to raise teachers’ base pay than to offer them modest and unpredictable bonuses. In a city surging with new money from the technology, aerospace and marijuana industries, teachers say they are struggling to pay off student loans and cannot afford rent, much less buy a home.“I’m striking so I can feed my kids without using a food bank,” said Rebecca Lovvorn, a single mother of three children who is an English teacher inside a juvenile detention center. “I have kids that are doing very illegal activities that I know for sure make better money than I do. They are 15 years old. And that is a hard rationale to confront.”Ms. Lovvorn will make about $44,000 this year, she said, with a bonus of about $2,000 for working in a school deemed difficult to serve. But she expects to take home just $31,200 after taxes and health insurance payments. (The federal poverty rate for a family of four is $25,100.)Denver teachers, on average, earn $63,400 per year, including ProComp bonuses. The union wants more money to go to base salaries, in part by reducing a proposed $2,500 bonus for teachers in high-poverty schools and eliminating a proposed $3,000 incentive for teachers in the district’s 30 highest-priority schools.The union and the district are also battling over the types of teacher education courses that would lead to higher pay.While the differences may seem slight to some, Rob Gould, the lead teacher negotiator, said in an interview that philosophically the two were still far apart. “They believe they should spend more money on higher bonuses,” he said of the district.Denver’s new school superintendent, Susana Cordova, said in a recent video message that she believed the two sides were close to an accord and that she agreed that teachers needed “more in their base salaries.”Central to the debate over ProComp is whether the system has worked to attract and retain good teachers and to improve achievement for Denver children. More than half of public school students in Denver are Latino. Two-thirds qualify for free or reduced-price lunch, and one-third are still learning English.A 2014 study from the University of Colorado Boulder found that ProComp had resulted in “very small” positive effects on students’ math scores and “very small” negative effects on students’ reading and writing scores. The report cautioned that the results had little “practical significance.”In a separate paper, the Boulder researchers found that teachers who had scored highly under ProComp were less likely to leave the district than those with low scores. Teacher retention is one of the goals of the program.Nevertheless, Derek Briggs, a professor of education and an author of the studies, said he was not surprised that the pay system had prompted a strike.“It’s been an ongoing source of dissatisfaction,” Professor Briggs said. While educators enrolled in ProComp can earn thousands of extra dollars annually, fluctuations in pay from year to year — even when teachers perceive no change in their own efforts on the job — cause resentment and anxiety, he said.Still, many education reformers continue to support Denver’s commitment to performance pay, calling it a crucial tool for raising achievement for nonwhite and poor children.“What I find to be really troubling is the union’s insistence that we return to a system of pay that approaches compensation like the great equalizer,” said Kate Walsh, president of the National Council on Teacher Quality, an advocacy group.Tying pay to seniority and education levels, but not to performance, she said, “allows us to set up this facade where we pretend that all teachers are equally gifted and bring equal skills to the table.”Underlying the battle in Denver is the fact that school funding in Colorado was about $2,000 below the national average per student in 2016. The state requires all tax increases to be approved directly by referendum, and during the midterm elections this past November, voters rejected an initiative to raise money for schools by increasing corporate taxes and personal income taxes on those earning over $150,000 a year.Last April, thousands of Colorado educators walked out of classrooms to protest low education funding.Most Denver schools are staying open during the job action, with striking teachers replaced by substitutes who will be paid $212 a day, double the district’s normal rate. Gov. Jared Polis, a Democrat and the founder of two charter schools, has said the strike will cost the district $400,000 a day, representing 1 percent to 2 percent of the annual budget if it lasts one week.Jack Begg contributed research. Follow Julie Turkewitz on Twitter: @julieturkewitzFollow Dana Goldstein on Twitter: @DanaGoldsteinA version of this article appears in print on , on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Where Teachers Hailed Performance-Based Pay, They’re Now on Strike Against It. 

U.S. and China Near a Trade Deal to Drop Tariffs - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBusinessSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBusiness|U.S. and China Near a Trade Deal to Drop TariffsAdvertisementSupported byU.S. and China Near a Trade Deal to Drop TariffsImageA shopping mall in Beijing. The United States is said to be close to a deal with China that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific.CreditCreditAndy Wong/Associated PressBy Ana Swanson and Keith BradsherMarch 3, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is close to a trade deal with China that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific but may do little to achieve the substantive changes to China’s economy that the United States initially set out to win, people with knowledge of the talks said.Significant details remain unsettled and the deal is still being discussed but so far, the two sides have agreed on a pact that would largely require Beijing to make big purchases of American agricultural and energy goods and to lower some barriers that prevent American companies from operating in China. In return, the United States would most likely drop its tariffs on at least $200 billion of the $250 billion worth of Chinese imports currently subject to American levies.China, which has retaliated against President Trump’s tariffs with its own punishing taxes on American goods, is pushing for the elimination of all of the Trump tariffs, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said. It is unclear whether the Trump administration will agree to remove all the tariffs or keep some in place to keep pressure on China. As part of the agreement, the Trump administration has been pushing China to accept an enforcement mechanism that would enable the United States to quickly reinstate tariffs if Beijing fails to live up to specific promises.For Mr. Trump, the ability to announce a deal with China would constitute a victory for a presidency rocked by legal investigations and failed nuclear disarmament talks with North Korea last week. Mr. Trump has spent more than a year accusing China of unfair trade practices and promising to shift the balance of economic power back to the United States.The agreement under discussion would expand markets for American financial services firms and farmers, in part by requiring that China buy large amounts of energy and farm goods, like liquid natural gas and soybeans.But early details indicate it would do little to substantively change the way China has long done business and would not force Beijing to curtail cybertheft or the subsidies that the administration complains create an uneven playing field for American companies.The language aimed at China’s discrimination against foreign companies, like its antimonopoly law or standard-setting processes, is probably too vague to be enforceable, while China’s promises on curtailing subsidies are also overly broad, a person familiar with the negotiation said. The pact also doesn’t alter China’s tight restrictions on data, the person said. In addition, many of the big purchases that Beijing is promising would occur over a number of years, which could give China further leverage during that period, critics say.Regardless of what Mr. Trump’s negotiators agree upon, no deal will be final until the president signs onto the agreement. Since starting his trade war last year, Mr. Trump has vacillated between accusing China of destroying American jobs and playing up his strong relationship with President Xi Jinping and his ability to reach a trade deal. Mr. Trump recently began dangling a signing event with Mr. Xi at Mar-a-Lago, the president’s resort, and that ceremony seems to be coming together for later this month. While Mr. Trump wanted a summit meeting earlier in the month, the event could occur at the end of March, after Mr. Xi finishes a scheduled trip through Europe, according to people familiar with the discussions.China very much wants to present the image that a deal is at hand as several thousand top officials of the Chinese Communist Party and hundreds of the country’s most prominent business leaders gathered in Beijing over the weekend for the annual session of the legislature, the National People’s Congress, which starts on Tuesday.The Chinese government has been willing to discuss moves that it perceives as being in China’s interest, from long-term purchases of commodities that are needed for Chinese factories to changes in China’s foreign investment law that make it a more attractive place for overseas companies to operate. But people familiar with the Chinese government’s stance say it is determined to say no to policy changes that do not benefit its interest.ImagePresident Trump with China’s president, Xi Jinping, in Beijing in November 2017. Any trade deal still needs the approval of both leaders.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesBeijing has carried out most of the legal work needed for the legislature to pass a new, comprehensive law on investment by foreign businesses that would help satisfy some of America’s earlier demands. The law will be the framework for China to reduce its limits on foreign stakes in Chinese banks, insurers and asset management companies — something that Mr. Xi had agreed to do in November 2017, when Mr. Trump came to Beijing for talks ahead of the trade war.In a congressional hearing last week, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, signaled a long road ahead to reaching an agreement but said the United States would push for a substantive deal that did not merely result in purchases of American goods.“What we want is fair trade that requires structural change and it has to be enforceable,” Mr. Lighthizer said.He said the United States and China were working to establish an enforcement mechanism that would involve an extensive series of meetings at various levels of government and the threat of tariffs if China was found to have violated the trade agreement.The Chinese continue to be concerned that, after they have made concessions to get to the brink of a deal, Mr. Trump will be convinced by more hawkish voices in the media or the administration to try to press China for even more, said Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.The trade deal under discussion stems from the Trump administration’s findings last March that Beijing was engaging in unfair trade practices, including pressuring or requiring American companies to transfer their technology and intellectual property to Chinese partners as a condition of doing business in the country. The investigation found that China’s practices hurt American exports, job numbers and wages.Mr. Trump has long attacked China’s economic practices, likening it to a “rape of our country” and “the greatest theft in the history of the world” while campaigning for the White House.The president has continued to accuse China of engaging in nefarious practices to get a leg up in global trade and has imposed tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods to pressure Beijing to stop. The trade war, which has raged for months, has begun to hurt American companies that depend on China for sales and production, and many large multinational firms have said the trade war will crimp 2019 profits.David Loevinger, who was the Treasury’s senior coordinator for China affairs in the first term of the Obama administration, said he thought there was too much optimism in China and the United States that a trade deal would roll back most or all of the tariffs that President Trump imposed last year.“What’s very clear is we’ve reached the peak of the tariff war,” said Mr. Loevinger, now a managing director for emerging markets at TCW, an asset-management company in Los Angeles. “The question is how much of a rollback do we get — my expectation is probably not very much.”Last week, Mr. Trump said he would delay imposing higher tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods, citing substantial progress in trade talks. On Saturday, Mr. Trump said he was asking China to end its retaliatory tariffs on meat and other products.“I have asked China to immediately remove all Tariffs on our agricultural products (including beef, pork, etc.) based on the fact that we are moving along nicely with Trade discussions and I did not increase their second traunch of Tariffs to 25% on March 1st,” the president wrote Saturday on Twitter. “This is very important for our great farmers — and me!”Ana Swanson reported from Washington and Keith Bradsher from Beijing. Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Trade Deal With China May Bring Few Changes. 

With a Trump Ally Taking the Gavel, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Goes Quiet - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|With a Trump Ally Taking the Gavel, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Goes QuietAdvertisementSupported byWith a Trump Ally Taking the Gavel, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Goes QuietImageSenator Jim Risch, the Foreign Relations Committee’s new chairman, said any sparring with President Trump should be in private.CreditCreditErin Schaff for The New York TimesBy Catie EdmondsonFeb. 9, 2019WASHINGTON — Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee used his perch atop the storied Foreign Relations Committee to offer barbed criticisms of the president’s foreign policy, once acidly referring to the White House as an “adult day care center” that would set the nation on a path to World War III.For two years, the committee served as an arena for senators to air their grievances with President Trump’s isolationist foreign policy, as Mr. Corker strove to take his place among the powerhouses who once wielded the gavel — Henry Clay, Charles Sumner, Henry Cabot Lodge, Arthur H. Vandenberg, J. William Fulbright, Frank Church, Joseph R. Biden Jr., John Kerry and Richard Lugar.Its new chairman, Senator Jim Risch of Idaho, appears intent on taking the committee in a new direction.“My repertoire does not include sparring publicly with the president of the United States,” Mr. Risch told the Idaho Press newspaper last month. “For many, many different reasons, I think that’s counterproductive, and you won’t see me doing it.”He added, “We exchange ideas about how we feel on things, but when we do disagree, we do it face to face, and not on the front page of The New York Times.”Mr. Risch, a former trial lawyer and current cattle rancher, has taken the gavel of the vaunted committee as dissatisfaction among Senate Republicans with the president’s foreign policy has only mounted.In December, Senate Republicans publicly broke with the president to approve a resolution withdrawing American support for the Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. This month, they were even more emphatic, voting almost unanimously to express their disapproval of his abrupt withdrawal of troops from Syria and Afghanistan.House Republicans voted overwhelmingly last month to bar an American exit from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, after The New York Times reported that Mr. Trump had expressed an interest in shattering the alliance.But none of those issues have merited a hearing before the new Senate Foreign Relations Committee or a sharp word from the new chairman. A spokeswoman for Mr. Risch explained that while he takes seriously the committee’s oversight role, he is confident that he has the president’s ear on matters of foreign policy; he believes he is more effective when he raises his concerns with Mr. Trump privately on concerns where they may differ.“He’ll be addressing a lot of key issues,” Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio and a committee member, said, expressing confidence in Mr. Risch. Besides, Mr. Portman added, “members are independent actors, and we’re all going to speak up and let our views be known.”Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware and another committee member, hit on the same point: “I understand that Chairman Risch has a different style and approach perhaps than Chairman Corker did, but I am determined that the committee will be no less effective.”Some foreign policy experts say even Mr. Corker was derelict in his duty to turn acerbic comments into real oversight or legislation. Under Mr. Risch, even the words might go silent. And that will have real consequences.Leveraging the committee’s oversight power is “a critical element of getting to the right place,” said Wendy R. Sherman, an under secretary of state and acting deputy secretary of state under President Barack Obama.“I’m not saying that Senator Risch should be combative with the president, but where there is disagreement, we rely on the U.S. Senate,” Ms. Sherman said. “They can take the long view, and for them to defer to the president on everything really undermines the strength of that committee and the historic role that it’s played.”Stewart M. Patrick, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and former policy staffer at the State Department under President George W. Bush, said, “It’s not enough simply to make, as Bob Corker did pretty frequently, made-for-TV sound bites expressing alarm or discomfort about U.S. policy unless there’s going to be substantive hearings about the wisdom of those choices.” He added, “The danger with Mr. Risch is that we are going to get neither expressions of alarm when the administration is off track, nor effective oversight.”Allies of the new chairman describe him as a workhorse, not a showhorse. But on policy, Mr. Trump has a friend at the helm of the Foreign Relations Committee. Mr. Risch has broken with the president on occasion, joining his colleagues to protest Mr. Trump’s appetite for leaving the Atlantic alliance, and taking an aggressive stance on Russia.But after The Washington Post reported that Mr. Trump disclosed classified information provided by Israel to the Russian foreign minister, Mr. Risch told CNN: “There’s a weasel here and the weasel is not the president of the United States. It’s the traitor who disclosed these facts to The Washington Post.”While he joined his peers in voting for a bipartisan amendment sponsored by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, which warned the president of the dangers of a “precipitous withdrawal” of troops from Syria and Afghanistan, he took to the Senate floor to chastise news outlets for “badly mischaracterizing” the measure as a rebuke to Mr. Trump. Instead, he said, it commended the president “for all the things he’s been able to do in Syria in getting ISIS contained down to the very small area that remains.”And he has remained sanguine about the president’s ability to persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons, telling PBS NewsHour over the summer that Mr. Trump “should be given credit” for the work he had already accomplished.“The president is committed to seeing this through, and as such we should all remember that negotiations involve both public and private diplomacy,” Mr. Risch said in a statement. “Sometimes that means there will be public posturing on both sides, but I hope we can all give the president space to continue to move us in the right direction with North Korea.”Mr. Risch will have his issues, but they are likely to dovetail with President Trump’s. He intends to delve into “the very real threat China poses to U.S. business and interests,” he said in a statement.And he is likely to join another member of the committee, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, in taking an aggressive stand challenging the regime of President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela.In the House, Democrats will be more than happy to fulfill that oversight mandate, and have already listed a series of investigations that the House Foreign Affairs Committee might oversee, including scrutinizing accusations that Mr. Trump hid details of his meetings with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia from the public and his own staff.But without a partner in the Senate, that committee’s legislative work can only go so far.That has Senate Democrats already expressing frustration.At a time when “our allies are questioning our commitments and our adversaries are relishing the chaos the administration’s policies have borne,” Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the committee’s ranking Democrat, said, it “can be constructive” to suggest alternatives to the administration’s current policies.“I understand that Senator Risch has said he won’t be taking on the president publicly, but there are times when both on the jurisdiction of your committee and on the issues you truly believe, you can shape the direction of things,” Mr. Menendez added. “It can be constructive" to make your thoughts known.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Shift in Tone for Foreign Relations Panel as Trump Ally Takes the Gavel. 

In Andrew Yang, the Internet Finds a Meme-Worthy Candidate - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexTechnologySubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperTechnology|In Andrew Yang, the Internet Finds a Meme-Worthy CandidateAdvertisementSupported byIn Andrew Yang, the Internet Finds a Meme-Worthy CandidateImageAndrew Yang, left, a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, with Robert Kvasne, a supporter, at a campaign event in Cleveland in February.CreditCreditPhil Long/Associated PressBy Kevin RooseMarch 20, 2019阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版If you visit the online betting market PredictIt, you’ll see a long list of 2020 Democratic candidates, ranked in order of their odds of winning the party’s nomination for president, according to the site’s users.Joe Biden, the former vice president, and Senator Bernie Sanders top the list. Then come other well-known Democrats: Senator Kamala Harris, former Representative Beto O’Rourke, Andrew Yang, Senator Elizabeth Warren.Wait, hang on a minute. Andrew Yang?This is not an algorithm glitch, it turns out. Mr. Yang, 44, an entrepreneur and a political neophyte running on the idea that the United States should provide a universal basic income, is popping up in unexpected places in the Democratic contest.He has catapulted out of obscurity thanks in part to a devoted internet following known as the “Yang Gang.” His fans have plastered Mr. Yang into memes and produced songs and music videos about his candidacy. They have also created a hashtaggable slogan — #securethebag — out of his signature campaign proposal to give $12,000 a year in no-strings-attached cash to every American adult, as a cushion against the mass unemployment he believes is coming thanks to artificial intelligence and automation.By conventional standards, Mr. Yang remains a fringe candidate. In national polls, his support among Democrats has registered between 0 and 1 percent. But his viral popularity on social media feels reminiscent of the “meme army” that helped lift President Trump to victory in 2016. WikiLeaks, itself a part of the internet’s political underbelly, recently took note of Mr. Yang’s online momentum, and asked, “Did Trump just lose the 2020 meme war?”“It’s very … interesting becoming the internet candidate,” Mr. Yang said last week in an interview while he was on his way to a rally in San Francisco. “I’m getting support from quarters I wouldn’t have expected.”A lot has changed for Mr. Yang since I profiled him a year ago. At the time, he was best known as a businessman who had sold his test-prep company to Kaplan before starting Venture for America, a nonprofit entrepreneurship organization for college graduates. He was entering the race with little name recognition, a nonexistent war chest and a quirky platform centered on his claim of an impending robot apocalypse.To ease the pain, he proposed what he called the “Freedom Dividend,” a $1,000-a-month basic income that would be paid to every American adult, regardless of income or employment status.Image“I’m getting support from quarters I wouldn’t have expected,” Mr. Yang said.CreditGuerin Blask for The New York TimesIn lieu of cable news appearances and huge rallies, Mr. Yang took his fledgling campaign on the podcast circuit. He appeared with Ezra Klein of Vox and Sam Harris, the author and host of the popular “Making Sense” podcast. Last month, he was interviewed for two hours by Joe Rogan, a stand-up comedian and mixed martial arts commentator whose podcast reaches an audience of many millions of people.After he appeared on Mr. Rogan’s show, his campaign experienced an influx of support, and it quickly reached the 65,000 individual donations required by the Democratic National Committee for inclusion in the first televised debates. Since the interview aired, he has raised more than $1 million.“I kept waiting for things to subside,” he told me. “And then it never did.”Other candidates have become internet phenomena before. In 2016, Mr. Sanders’s campaign first took off on sites like Reddit and Facebook among young progressives who set out to make him internet-famous. (One such group, Bernie Sanders’ Dank Meme Stash, still has more than 400,000 members.) And Mr. Trump, who benefited from a surge among young, internet-savvy supporters early in his campaign, has been attentive to the internet’s rightmost fringes.Mr. Yang’s campaign feels different, though, in that it reflects the fractured nature of the modern internet. It has attracted economic wonks, tech-skeptic progressives, right-wing bigots, members of the so-called intellectual dark web and an assortment of half-serious trolls. (At times, watching the Yang Gang at work can feel like the political equivalent of the “Boaty McBoatface” episode — a group of bored internet mischief makers seeing how far they can push a joke.)“There’s a sect of people who congregate online who view politics as almost a pointless exercise,” said Neeraj K. Agrawal, a communications director at a cryptocurrency-focused nonprofit, when asked to explain Mr. Yang’s appeal. “I think, in that context, elections and campaigns might as well be hilarious.”Some of Mr. Yang’s online support has been the kind he would rather not have. His candidacy has become an obsession on the politics forum on 4Chan, a message board known for the virulently racist and sexist views of its users, who call his basic income proposal “YangBux.”Several prominent white nationalists, including Richard Spencer and Andrew Anglin, the publisher of the neo-Nazi website the Daily Stormer, have also signaled their support for Mr. Yang, who they believe shares their concern for the fate of the white race. In a tweet, Mr. Spencer called Mr. Yang “the most grounded presidential candidate of my lifetime.”“It’s uncomfortable,” Mr. Yang, a son of immigrants, said of his campaign’s being embraced by the internet’s far-right fringe. “They’re antithetical to everything I stand for.”You can’t control the internet, of course. But Mr. Yang may be able to repel some of his most objectionable right-wing supporters by emphasizing his progressive policy positions. He has broadened his platform to include issues like marijuana legalization and Puerto Rican statehood (he supports both) as well as more obscure subjects like marketing robocalls and circumcision (he opposes both).VideoWhen we manipulate politicians’ images to our own ends, we may feel powerful — but are we?He is also playing along eagerly with his tamer online fans, retweeting their memes and egging them on with joke policy proposals like a “canine dividend,” which would give every American household 1,000 dogs a month.Mr. Yang’s rush of online support has earned him the attention of major media outlets, and has led to a series of TV appearances. (“The ratio of days I have makeup on is getting higher,” he recently tweeted.) But mainstream Democrats don’t seem intimidated yet.“We are quick to forget that online support is loudest among die-hards and is not representative of voters,” said Andrew Bleeker, the president of the Democratic communications firm Bully Pulpit Interactive and a former adviser to President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton on digital strategy.Still, some people who have noticed Mr. Yang’s rise on social media have cited his enthusiastic fan base — and the fact that nobody saw Mr. Trump coming, either — as proof that it’s too early to write anyone off.“There’s a vacuum on the left for people like Yang who view the internet as a primary and not secondary medium for audience building,” said Elizabeth Spiers, a Democratic political consultant and a former editor of Gawker.But there is a difference between building an online audience and running a successful campaign for president.“The challenge he faces is how to take the enthusiasm and energy he’s getting on social media and elsewhere and turn it into action,” said Kelly Dietrich, the founder of the National Democratic Training Committee, which helps train candidates to run for political office.Mr. Yang is not resting on his internet laurels. He has set new a goal of raising 200,000 individual donations by June, and he is planning a series of rallies in Chicago, New York and other cities later in the spring.He said he was also exploring the possibility of having a lifelike 3-D hologram made of himself that could be carried around battleground states like Iowa on the back of a flatbed truck, allowing Mr. Yang to give a recorded version of his stump speech without being physically present.“It’s a way for me to be in two places at once,” he said.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Running for President, One Meme at a Time. 

White House Climate Panel to Include a Climate Denialist - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexClimateSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperClimate|White House Climate Panel to Include a Climate DenialistAdvertisementSupported byWhite House Climate Panel to Include a Climate DenialistImageWater from recent heavy rainstorms breached a levee in Novato, Calif., on Feb. 14.CreditCreditTerry Chea/Associated PressBy Coral DavenportFeb. 20, 2019Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — President Trump is preparing to establish a panel to examine whether climate change affects national security, despite existing reports from his own government showing that global warming is a growing threat.According to a White House memo dated Feb. 14, Mr. Trump’s staff members have drafted an executive order to create a 12-member committee, which will include a White House adviser, William Happer, whose views are sharply at odds with the established scientific consensus that carbon dioxide pollution is dangerous for the planet.The memo casts doubt on multiple scientific and defense reports concluding that climate change poses a significant threat to national security, saying they “have not undergone a rigorous independent and adversarial peer review to examine the certainties and uncertainties of climate science, as well as implications for national security.”The effort to establish the panel appears to be the latest step by the Trump administration to question the science of climate change, as Mr. Trump rolls back Obama-era regulations on planet-warming pollution from vehicle tailpipes and power plants. It also appears to be the latest example of Mr. Trump’s propensity to ignore the findings and recommendations of his own intelligence and defense officials.At least to some extent, the matter may not entirely be in Mr. Trump’s control. Congress added language to the annual defense policy bill it passed with bipartisan support in late 2017 stating that climate change “is a direct threat to the national security of the United States and is impacting stability in areas of the world both where the United States Armed Forces are operating today, and where strategic implications for future conflict exist.”The bill, which Mr. Trump signed into law, specifically required the Pentagon to produce a report on climate change’s impact on military installations and encouraged department leaders to consider the effects of climate change when planning for current and future missions. The report was issued last month.Critics of the effort to create the new panel, which was first reported by The Washington Post, pointed to the inclusion of Dr. Happer, a Princeton physicist who serves on the National Security Council as Mr. Trump’s deputy assistant for emerging technologies. Dr. Happer has gained notoriety in the scientific community for his statements that carbon dioxide — a greenhouse gas that scientists say is trapping heat and warming the planet — is beneficial to humanity. The memo did not name other officials to be appointed to the panel.ImageWilliam Happer, a physicist serving as President Trump’s deputy assistant for emerging technologies, has said carbon dioxide is beneficial to humanity.CreditStephen Crowley/The New York TimesA spokesman for the National Security Council, which is leading the effort to create the panel, declined to comment on the record.Scientists defended the research already conducted by the government. “The link between climate science and national security has been closely studied for over a decade at the highest levels of the U.S. government — by scientists, the Defense Department and intelligence agencies — and all those studies have made a strong case that various aspects of climate change have an effect on national security,” said Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs at Princeton.Representative Adam Smith, Democrat of Washington and the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, called the creation of the panel part of Mr. Trump’s “rejection of reality” and warned that it could disrupt important national security planning around the world.“At every turn here they have tried to basically bury the science behind climate change,” Mr. Smith said. “It is simply not debatable from a scientific standpoint. Climate change will lead to instability in parts of the world that are fairly predictable.”Critics focused on the appointment of Dr. Happer to the panel given his public history of denying established climate science.In 2015, Dr. Happer was called to testify before a Senate committee after the environmental group Greenpeace revealed that he had agreed to write a scientific paper at the request of representatives of an unnamed oil company in the Middle East, who were actually Greenpeace employees conducting a sting operation.In his email exchanges with Greenpeace, Dr. Happer wrote: “More CO2 will benefit the world. The only way to limit CO2 would be to stop using fossil fuels, which I think would be a profoundly immoral and irrational policy.”Dr. Happer suggested to the purported funders that he not be paid directly. “My activities to push back against climate extremism are a labor of love,” he wrote.More Reporting on President Trump and Climate ChangeTrump Administration’s Strategy on Climate: Try to Bury Its Own Scientific ReportNov. 25, 2018U.S. Climate Report Warns of Damaged Environment and Shrinking Economy Nov. 23, 2018‘I Don’t Know That It’s Man-Made,’ Trump Says of Climate Change. It Is.Oct. 15, 2018In casting doubt on the established science of climate change and the multiple studies linking climate change and national security, the White House memo highlights several reports, including the 2019 Worldwide Threat Assessment, issued last month by the director of national intelligence, which asserted that climate change and other environmental degradation were “likely to fuel competition for resources, economic distress and social discontent through 2019 and beyond.”The report continued, “Climate hazards such as extreme weather, higher temperatures, droughts, floods, wildfires, storms, sea level rise, soil degradation and acidifying oceans are intensifying, threatening infrastructure, health, and water and food security.”The report listed specific risks posed by climate change, such as the threat of rising sea levels to the safety of low-lying military installations and the likelihood that increased drought and flooding could lead to mass human displacement and widespread conflict. The report concluded that climate-driven food shortages could increase “the risk of social unrest, migration and interstate tension in countries such as Egypt, Ethiopia, Iraq and Jordan.”The White House memo also casts doubt on the underlying science of the National Climate Assessment, issued as two reports in 2017 and 2018, which was the largest and most comprehensive scientific review of the impact of climate change to date in the United States.The reports documented conclusive evidence that the burning of fossil fuels is heating the atmosphere, leading to record wildfires in California, crop failures in the Midwest and crumbling infrastructure in the South. The reports also noted that as climate change brings an increase in sea level rise, extreme weather and drought, it can lead to damages to military installations.How to Cut U.S. Emissions Faster? Do What These Countries Are Doing.How the United States could cut emissions in half, using policies that other countries already have in place.The peer-reviewed reports, researched over several years, were published by more than 13 federal agencies alongside dozens of academic researchers. Dr. Oppenheimer scoffed at the White House’s contention that the reports had not gone undergone rigorous peer review.“They underwent a total scrub-down by peer review,” he said.In addition to those reports, the Pentagon has commissioned and funded scientific research on the impact of climate change and sea-level rise, in order to plan for the effects on low-lying military installations.One of those reports, published last February, titled “The Impact of Sea-Level Rise and Climate Change on Department of Defense Installations on Atolls in the Pacific Ocean,” detailed numerous effects that rising seas have on military bases.For example, the report suggested that a string of South Pacific islands that is home to the Ronald Reagan Ballistic Missile Defense Test Site, which operates space weapons programs and tracks NASA research, could be uninhabitable by as soon as 2035 because of rising sea levels.That Pentagon-funded research came after more than a decade of major military and scientific studies, dating back to the George W. Bush administration, that linked climate change to national security threats.A 2014 Pentagon report asserted decisively that climate change posed an immediate threat to national security, multiplying risks from terrorism, infectious disease, global poverty and food shortages. It also predicted rising demand for military disaster responses as extreme weather created more global humanitarian crises.That same year, the Pentagon’s Quadrennial Defense Review, the agency’s main public document describing the current doctrine of the United States military, drew a direct link between the effects of global warming — like rising sea levels and extreme weather patterns — and terrorism.Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.Coral Davenport covers energy and environmental policy, with a focus on climate change, from the Washington bureau. She joined The Times in 2013 and previously worked at Congressional Quarterly, Politico and National Journal.
@CoralMDavenport • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Climate Panel Could Question Scope of Threat. 

If Not Trump, Then Who? Pelosi Fuels Impeachment Debate With Long Implications - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|If Not Trump, Then Who? Pelosi Fuels Impeachment Debate With Long ImplicationsAdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisIf Not Trump, Then Who? Pelosi Fuels Impeachment Debate With Long ImplicationsImageSpeaker Nancy Pelosi said in an interview published this week by The Washington Post that impeaching President Trump was “just not worth it.”CreditCreditTom Brenner for The New York TimesBy Peter Baker and Emily CochraneMarch 12, 2019WASHINGTON — In throwing cold water on the idea of impeachment, Speaker Nancy Pelosi in some ways was simply offering a cleareyed assessment of the state of politics today in the nation’s hyperpolarized capital: There are not enough votes to convict and remove President Trump from office.And yet in declaring that impeachment therefore is “just not worth it,” Ms. Pelosi may also be setting a far-reaching new standard with implications long after Mr. Trump leaves office. By her reasoning, accusations of conspiracy, obstruction of justice, campaign finance violations and other offenses — even if proved — do not rise to a level requiring action by the House of Representatives.All of which raise fundamental questions: If Mr. Trump has done what he is accused of doing, and that would not qualify as high crimes and misdemeanors, then what would? If Congress opts against impeachment regardless of what the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, reports, would that set the bar so high that impeachment will no longer be a viable option? Will future presidents have license to cross all sorts of lines because of the precedent? In other words, if not Mr. Trump, then who?“We don’t necessarily take all that off the table as impeachable offenses, but people will argue, ‘But what about Trump?’” said Michael J. Gerhardt, a constitutional law professor and an impeachment scholar at the University of North Carolina. “If Trump can get away with it, why not President X or Y? He’s raised the bar.”Mr. Trump chose on Wednesday morning to take Ms. Pelosi’s remarks as validation, never mind that she said that he was unfit for office even though she did not plan to seek to throw him out of power.“I greatly appreciate Nancy Pelosi’s statement against impeachment, but everyone must remember the minor fact that I never did anything wrong, the Economy and Unemployment are the best ever, Military and Vets are great - and many other successes!” he wrote on Twitter. “How do you impeach a man who is considered by many to be the President with the most successful first two years in history, especially when he has done nothing wrong and impeachment is for ‘high crimes and misdemeanors’?”In her comments to The Washington Post published this week, Ms. Pelosi did not entirely close the door, but she said that she was “not for impeachment” because it was so divisive and declared that the House should not head down that road unless there was “something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan.”Many critics, especially on the left, argue that the first two of those standards have already been met or likely will be, but the third clearly has not, at least not yet. While Democrats could impeach Mr. Trump by themselves on a majority vote in the House, they would need at least 20 Republican senators to reach the two-thirds supermajority needed in the Senate to convict and remove him from office. Not even a single Republican senator has signaled openness to that at the moment.Ms. Pelosi’s calculation reflects the lessons of history. No president has been removed or forced from office on a partisan basis. The only two presidents ever impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, were each put on trial by opposition Republicans only to be acquitted in the Senate. President Richard M. Nixon, on the other hand, resigned amid impeachment proceedings only after it became clear his fellow Republicans were abandoning him.In effect, though, Ms. Pelosi’s articulated standard then leaves impeachment in the hands of the president’s own party. So long as Mr. Trump retains strong support among Republican voters, the White House feels confident that Republican senators will stick with him, which is why the president routinely emphasizes polls showing his standing with his conservative base. In the latest Gallup survey, 90 percent of Republicans approved of Mr. Trump’s performance.Ms. Pelosi’s conclusion, which repeated in harder terms views that she has expressed previously, roiled many in her own party, where many liberals are eager to impeach the president. Tom Steyer, the California billionaire donor who has been leading a pro-impeachment advocacy campaign, quickly issued a statement on Monday rejecting the speaker’s assessment.“I disagree with her,” Representative Juan C. Vargas, Democrat of California, said on Tuesday. “The Constitution is clear: If there’s an impeachable offense, we should impeach the president or impeach whoever. And that’s what we should do: Follow the Constitution and not politics.”Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democrat of Michigan, who has vehemently declared that “we’re going to impeach” Mr. Trump, said that she would continue to press for investigations that could lead to that. “Speaker Pelosi has always encouraged me to represent my district, has never told me to stop, has never told me to do anything differently, ever,” she said.Some in the party leadership, however, bristled at the pressure to impeach from newly elected liberals like Ms. Tlaib, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. “We’ve got 62 new members,” snapped Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader. “Not three.”But even some impeachment advocates acknowledged the practical reality behind Ms. Pelosi’s position. “We won’t actually remove this president until Sean Hannity calls for us to remove this president. Or until Laura Ingraham,” said Representative Brad Sherman, Democrat of California, who has already introduced articles of impeachment against Mr. Trump. “Until we drive home our message, change public opinion and develop more facts.”At the White House, the speaker’s comments offered an opportunity to claim vindication while driving a wedge among the opposition. “I’m glad that she sees what the rest of us see and that there’s no reason, no cause for impeachment,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Tuesday on Fox News.“It’s time for other Democrats in Nancy Pelosi’s party to get on board,” she added, and to “start doing what they were elected to do — do their jobs and quit trying to focus so much on making excuses for the historic loss that they suffered in 2016.”The reluctance of Democratic leaders to pursue impeachment owes to the scars left by the clash between Mr. Clinton and Congress in 1998-99, when Republicans suffered at the ballot box from what appeared to be a partisan drive to push out the president. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, who served on the House Judiciary Committee at the time and is now the panel’s chairman, has said that some accusations against Mr. Trump appear impeachable, and yet he would not seek to move to impeach the president without signs of Republican support.Joshua Matz, an author with Laurence H. Tribe of “To End a Presidency: The Power of Impeachment” and the publisher of Take Care, a blog that follows legal issues raised by Mr. Trump’s presidency, said opting not to impeach in the face of evident high crimes and misdemeanors “could create disturbing precedent for future presidents.” But another failed effort 20 years after the Clinton case could be even worse.“Impeaching him under circumstances where the proceeding is all but doomed to failure could create a far more disastrous precedent than not impeaching him in the first place,” Mr. Matz said. “An acquittal in the Senate would be far more precedential and significant than a nonimpeachment decision in the House.”But this raises a debate that has yet to be resolved among scholars: Does the Constitution give the House such discretion when there are provable impeachable offenses, or does it require it to take action?Unlike Mr. Matz, Cass R. Sunstein, a Harvard Law School professor who once worked in President Barack Obama’s White House, argued that the Constitution offers lawmakers little choice.“If we have a clear impeachable offense that is not a borderline one but a clear one, the impeachment process is mandatory because the House of Representatives is an agent of ‘we the people,’ the first three words of the Constitution,” said Mr. Sunstein, whose latest book, “On Freedom,” was published last month.Speaking generally without commenting directly on Mr. Trump, he added: “It may be, as a realistic matter, the Senate is going to stick with a president to whom it has a political allegiance. But the House isn’t supposed to think about that.” Follow Peter Baker and Emily Cochrane on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @escochrane.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: Ruling Out Impeachment May Set Far-Reaching Precedent. 

Why Some Republicans Voted Against the Antibigotry Resolution - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Why Some Republicans Voted Against the Antibigotry ResolutionAdvertisementSupported byWhy Some Republicans Voted Against the Antibigotry ResolutionEvery House Democrat voted for a broadly worded resolution condemning “hateful expressions of intolerance,” but 23 Republicans voted no. ImageRepresentative Liz Cheney, Republican of Wyoming, called the resolution “a sham put forward by Democrats to avoid condemning one of their own.”CreditCreditErin Schaff for The New York TimesBy Emily Cochrane and Catie EdmondsonMarch 10, 2019WASHINGTON — The House passed a resolution on Thursday that condemned anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry. The resolution, written by House Democrats, began as an implicit response to comments made by Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, that were widely deemed anti-Semitic, but when some Democrats objected to singling her out, the resolution was broadened to condemn other forms of hatred. Earlier this year, House Republicans unanimously endorsed a resolution that condemned white nationalism and white supremacy after Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, asked when the term “white supremacy” had become controversial, capping years of bigoted comments that had gone unpunished. This time, they were not so united, and some Democrats demanded to know why.Where’s the outrage over the 23 GOP members who voted NO on a resolution condemning bigotry today?Oh, there’s none?Did they get called out, raked over, ambushed in halls and relentlessly asked why not?No? Okay. Got it.— Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (@AOC) March 8, 2019
Here is their answer:“The frustration on the Republican side was that they watered down the amendment,” Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, said at a news conference on Friday. (Mr. McCarthy voted for the resolution; one of his top lieutenants, Representative Liz Cheney, voted against it.)Representative Andy Biggs of Arizona“We’re here today because a member of this body issued a series of anti-Semitic statements,” Mr. Biggs said in a floor speech on Thursday. He spoke of the difference between justice and mercy, adding: “We now have a pattern and we begin to wonder how we extend mercy when justice cries out against one who is anti-Semitic. It doesn’t help that Democratic leaders have attempted to rationalize and protect this individual.”In 2016, Mr. Biggs raised eyebrows when he charged that the Jewish philanthropist George Soros was buying a local election for county attorney.Representative Mo Brooks of AlabamaMr. Brooks said he voted against the resolution because its “failure to specifically state opposition to discrimination against Caucasian-Americans and Christians, while reflective of Socialist Democrat priorities and values is, by omission, fatal to the bill.”After Mr. Brooks said in 2016 that Muslims wanted to “kill every gay person in America,” the Alabama chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations demanded an apology.Representative Ken Buck of ColoradoMr. Buck, in a statement after the vote, criticized the resolution for failing “to address a problem that needed to be confronted.”“Anti-Semitism can’t be compared with any other hate speech without marginalizing the history of Jewish oppression,” he said. “I will not vote to overlook the anti-Semitism which has been covered up by the Democratic leadership.”Representative Ted Budd of North CarolinaMr. Budd, reacting on Twitter, said that he voted against the resolution because it failed to name Ms. Omar or list her comments.Representative Michael C. Burgess of TexasThe legislation, Mr. Burgess said in a statement, “does not adequately refute the anti-Semitism that has been displayed in the U.S. House of Representatives.”Representative Liz Cheney of WyomingPerhaps the most striking “no” vote came from Ms. Cheney, the No. 3 Republican, because of her role as chairwoman of the House Republican Conference. “Today’s resolution vote was a sham put forward by Democrats to avoid condemning one of their own and denouncing vile anti-Semitism,” Ms. Cheney said in a statement after the vote. The Democrats’ resolution left the party with internal questions about where to draw the line on speech.Representative Chris Collins of New YorkMr. Collins was re-elected in November even after he was indicted on a charge of insider trading. He has kept a low profile, but after his “no” vote, he took to Twitter.“After reading the final resolution I did not feel it was strong enough in support of Israel, the only true democracy in the Middle East, and that is why I voted no,” Mr. Collins said. Representative K. Michael Conaway of TexasMr. Conaway said in a statement that House Democrats “must take bigotry of all kinds seriously, not just instances that fit their progressive liberal agenda.”Representative Rick Crawford of Arkansas“If Democrat Leaders wanted to specifically address anti-Semitism and a member of their conference who has repeatedly made anti-Semitic comments,” Mr. Crawford said on Twitter, “this resolution failed in nearly every way possible.”Representative Jeff Duncan of South CarolinaMr. Duncan argued that a true condemnation would have made reference to Ms. Omar, and the comments that prompted the resolution. Mr. Duncan stirred protests in 2017 when he posted on Facebook an image of a white man labeled “Europe” with a noose around his neck watering a small tree labeled “Islam,” with one end of the noose tied around it. “Chew on this picture,” he wrote.“Jeff I know you’re not racist. Let’s put that to the side,” Bakari Sellers, a former Democratic legislator in South Carolina, tweeted in response. “But this is bigoted, ignorant and embarrassing.”Representative Louie Gohmert of TexasIn a fiery speech on the House floor on Thursday, Mr. Gohmert complained that the resolution was “watered down.” Mr. Gohmert dealt with his own accusations of anti-Semitism last year after he falsely accused Mr. Soros of collaborating with the Nazis during World War II, a popular myth on the far right. “George Soros is supposed to be Jewish, but you wouldn’t know it from the damage he’s inflicted on Israel, and the fact that he turned on fellow Jews and helped take the property that they owned,” he said on Fox Business Network.Patrick Gaspard, the president of Mr. Soros’s Open Society Foundations, sent a letter to Mr. Gohmert in December demanding an apology for the “disturbing and false anti-Semitic slur.” Mr. Soros was a child in Nazi-occupied Hungary.Representative Paul Gosar of Arizona“Without naming the offender, the chastisement is an empty gesture,” Mr. Gosar said on Twitter. “It’s time for Democrats to take real action against these anti-Jewish remarks.” Mr. Gosar raised eyebrows after the deadly white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017 when he said “an Obama sympathizer” — funded by Mr. Soros — “started the rally,” then repeated the claim that Mr. Soros “turned in his own people to the Nazis.” Representative Tom Graves of GeorgiaMr. Graves criticized the resolution in a statement as “a sham vote” that failed to directly address Ms. Omar or her remarks. Representative Peter T. King of New YorkMr. King complained on Twitter that the resolution was weakened because of political correctness, and said it was a “sad day for Congress.” “Victory for hate speech!” he added. Representative Doug LaMalfa of CaliforniaIn a statement to The New York Times, Mr. LaMalfa said that the resolution — which he called a “last-minute, politically driven catchall smorgasbord” — was an “abomination to the message that should be sent on the anti-Jewish, anti-Israel rhetoric.” Representative Thomas Massie of KentuckyMr. Massie joined his colleagues in criticizing the scope of the measure, asking on Twitter, “Now that the resolution protects just about every group on the planet, can we add ‘babies on the day of their birth’ as a protected class?”Representative Steven M. Palazzo of MississippiA spokeswoman for Mr. Palazzo did not respond to a request for comment. Representative Mike Rogers of Alabama“House Democrats had the opportunity to make a strong statement against this vile bigotry by condemning hateful statements,” Mr. Rogers in a statement. “Instead, they caved to their radical socialist base and took no meaningful action.”Representative Chip Roy of TexasMr. Roy described the resolution in a statement as “a sham cover vote designed to avoid dealing with a rogue member.”Representative Greg Steube of FloridaIn a statement, Mr. Steube said the resolution should have mentioned Ms. Omar by name and the context of her remarks. Representative Mark Walker of North CarolinaIn a statement, Mr. Walker said that it was a “spineless resolution” that “provided cover to a politician spreading hatred and anti-Semitism.”Representative Ted Yoho of Florida“It was a very shallow vote,” Mr. Yoho said in an interview on Friday. “They did everything they could to not condemn the one that was brought out to. So I think it was just a show vote.”Representative Lee Zeldin of New YorkIn a floor speech on Thursday, Mr. Zeldin asked why Ms. Omar was not named in the resolution and noted that she had not apologized for her most recent comments. (She apologized for other remarks seen as anti-Semitic.)“Why would she be more emboldened to refuse an apology altogether?” he asked in a floor speech. “I don’t believe she is naïve. I believe that she knows exactly what she is doing.”Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting. Emily Cochrane is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress. She was raised in Miami and graduated from the University of Florida.
@ESCochrane Catie Edmondson is a reporter in the Washington bureau, covering Congress.
@CatieEdmondson A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A12 of the New York edition with the headline: G.O.P. House Members Explain Their ‘No’ Votes On Antibigotry Measure. 

The Man Deciding Facebook’s Fate - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexTechnologySubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperTechnology|The Man Deciding Facebook’s FateAdvertisementSupported byThe Man Deciding Facebook’s FateImageJoseph J. Simons, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, is a lawyer who has focused on antitrust regulation for most of his career.CreditCreditAndré Chung for The New York TimesBy Cecilia KangMarch 8, 2019WASHINGTON — The Federal Trade Commission has no shortage of critics who say it cannot protect Americans from the prying eyes of Big Tech. Instead of forceful action against the likes of Facebook and Google, they say, the F.T.C. leans on rules that make it hard to impose penalties bigger than rounding errors for the companies.Those critics have an unusual champion: Joseph J. Simons, the man running the agency.“We have this over 100-year-old statute that is our main authority,” Mr. Simons said in his first sit-down interview since becoming chairman 10 months ago. “And clearly legislators who approved that were not thinking about data security and privacy issues.”In the deregulatory era of the Trump administration, Mr. Simons, 60, a Republican lawyer who has jumped between the public and private sectors for more than 30 years, is a rare voice for strengthening the government’s hand.Mr. Simons has urged Congress to expand the F.T.C.’s privacy-enforcement powers and allow it to impose fines more easily, write new rules and hire more experts. He also says the agency should police how all companies and nonprofits — not just technology companies — collect and handle people’s digital data.But none of those changes will happen before Mr. Simons must make the most anticipated decision on data privacy in the agency’s history. In the coming weeks, he and the F.T.C.’s four other commissioners are expected to conclude an investigation into whether Facebook violated its promises to protect people’s data.The outcome of the case is seen as a referendum on the government’s ability to rein in tech giants that have amassed incredible wealth and power from collecting and bartering user data.“The F.T.C.’s decision on Facebook will be highly consequential, for the F.T.C. and Facebook, for the tech industry, and for consumers,” said David Vladeck, who led consumer protection at the agency during the Obama administration. “The commission’s action will set the bar.”The case has taken on huge significance in Washington, where Facebook has become Exhibit A for an industry accused of a wide range of problems, from enabling foreign election interference to crushing competitors.A rising chorus of Republican and Democratic lawmakers has criticized the F.T.C. for not restraining the companies’ data-collection practices, which are central to some of their businesses. The agency’s biggest penalty on a tech company was a $22 million fine imposed on Google in 2012, for misrepresenting how it used some online tracking tools. Google reported $50 billion in revenue that year.On Friday, Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who is running for president, announced a sweeping plan to strengthen regulations against big tech companies.“The F.T.C. has been a disappointment with its lack of enforcement in the past, which for Facebook and Google has amounted to a slap on the wrist,” Senator Josh Hawley, a freshman Republican from Missouri, said in an interview. Mr. Hawley investigated Google for competition violations when he was a state attorney general.The Facebook investigation is focused on whether the social network violated a 2011 consent decree in which it promised to protect user data and inform users of changes in how their data was used. The inquiry started last March under Mr. Simons’s Republican predecessor, Maureen Ohlhausen, after a report in The New York Times revealed that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica had analyzed the data of 87 million users without their permission.The agency is considering imposing a multibillion-dollar fine on Facebook as well as new requirements to strengthen protections on how data is collected and shared, according to two people close to talks between the agency and the company. The two sides have discussed a possible settlement for weeks, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is continuing.Facebook declined to comment about Mr. Simons and the investigation. The social network has defended its actions, saying that when it learned a researcher violated its terms of service by giving user data to Cambridge Analytica, it demanded that the data be destroyed and was promised that it had been.On Wednesday, the company announced plans to shift to a more privacy-focused platform. Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, said Facebook would invest in encrypted communications and refashion its messaging tools to emphasize private conversations.ImageMr. Simons and his agency’s four other commissioners are investigating whether Facebook violated its promises to protect personal data.CreditT.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York TimesMr. Simons declined to discuss the Facebook case. And he was even guarded about his own use of technology. He would not say whether he used Facebook or two other popular apps owned by the company, Instagram and WhatsApp. He doesn’t use other social media like Twitter, he said; aides write the tweets from his official F.T.C. account.“I don’t even know how to access my account,” Mr. Simons said.His comfort zone is antitrust regulation, a major focus for the F.T.C. and an area in which he has worked for most of his career. In his meticulous office, Mr. Simons keeps handy a worn Yale Law Journal with red plastic tabs on antitrust articles. He has had six of its authors speak at the F.T.C. since he arrived.In one of his first actions as chairman, he held hearings on updating merger reviews and antitrust enforcement in the digital age. In late February, he announced a task force of 17 antitrust staff members to study potential problems that could arise from past tech mergers.“In antitrust, you want to focus on areas where there is likely to be market power or monopoly power,” Mr. Simons said. “So it is not unreasonable to look at big digital platforms and say, well, that might be an ripe area to look at.”He is new to the world of data privacy and admits he is cramming to understand it, immersing himself in articles and grilling staff about data protection. But that, he said, allows him to bring a “fresh perspective” to privacy enforcement.“I am willing to look at everything with a fresh eye, and to question long-held beliefs and assumptions,” he said.The F.T.C. monitors whether companies like Google, Uber and Facebook break promises written into privacy policies. But it can’t directly fine a company for a first-time offense; it can only charge a company with deceptive or unfair business practices, which the agency must prove in court. The potential penalty against Facebook could reach billions of dollars because the case hinges on whether it violated a previous settlement.Mr. Simons argues that the agency needs more direct authority to oversee privacy practices and fine companies. He says it is too hard to prove to a court that someone has been harmed by a company’s unauthorized use of their data.“It’s important that we get civil penalty authority,” he said. “For companies that have lots of money, the impact would be sufficient to deter them.”Privacy groups say the agency has missed numerous opportunities to punish companies with its existing powers. Many compare the commission with European regulators, which have levied hefty fines on Google, Facebook, Amazon and Apple for violating antitrust, privacy, tax and security laws.Some privacy advocates are also concerned about Mr. Simon’s inexperience in the area, saying it requires a deep understanding of complicated technologies.“I don’t think he understands the dimensions and implications underlying the consumer privacy threat,” said Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.Mr. Simons said there were obvious differences between how the United States and Europe viewed privacy.“The E.U. has this strong sense of the right to be forgotten,” he said. “We don’t have that. We have the opposite of that. We have the First Amendment.”And he said the details of how the government handled digital privacy should be for lawmakers, not him, to sort out.“Privacy involves very important societal and cultural values that really need to be determined by the Congress,” Mr. Simons said, pointing toward Capitol Hill, less than a mile up Pennsylvania Avenue from his office.“Not,” he said, “by unelected F.T.C. commissioners.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Fate Of Facebook Comes Down To One Man. 

In Blow to Trump, America’s Trade Deficit in Goods Hits Record $891 Billion - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|In Blow to Trump, America’s Trade Deficit in Goods Hits Record $891 BillionAdvertisementSupported byIn Blow to Trump, America’s Trade Deficit in Goods Hits Record $891 BillionImageChinese heavy-lift cranes, purchased for the Port of Tacoma. In a year in which President Trump imposed a variety of tariffs, the overall trade deficit grew 12.5 percent from 2017.CreditCreditTed S. Warren/Associated PressBy Jim Tankersley and Ana SwansonMarch 6, 2019WASHINGTON — America’s trade deficit in goods with the rest of the world rose to its highest level in history last year as the United States imported a record number of products, including from China, widening the deficit to $891.3 billion and delivering a setback to President Trump’s goal of narrowing that gap.The increase was driven by some factors outside Mr. Trump’s control, like a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the United States dollar, both of which weakened overseas demand for American goods. But the widening gap was also exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, which has been largely financed by government borrowing, and the trade war he escalated last year.It is a case of textbook economics catching up with some of Mr. Trump’s unorthodox economic policies. Economists have long warned that Mr. Trump’s tax cuts would ultimately exacerbate a trade deficit he has vowed to reduce, as Americans, flush with extra cash, bought more imported goods.His trade war with Beijing also widened the gap: Stiff tariffs on Chinese goods helped slow China’s economy, crimping American exports, which declined nearly 50 percent in December from the same month a year before.“All countries run trade deficits whenever they consume more than they produce,” said Kimberly Clausing, an economist at Reed College in Oregon. “And when we borrow to finance tax cuts, like we did with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we make these imbalances worse.”The trade deficit is the difference between how much a country sells to its trading partners and how much it buys. It generally includes both goods and services, though Mr. Trump has focused almost exclusively on the deficit in goods. He has long boasted that his trade policies would reduce that gap, which he views as a measure of whether partners like China and the European Union are taking advantage of the United States, a diagnosis few economists share.Instead, in a year in which Mr. Trump imposed tariffs on steel, aluminum, washing machines, solar panels and a variety of Chinese goods, the overall trade deficit grew 12.5 percent from 2017, or nearly $70 billion, to $621 billion, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. Although the United States recorded a trade surplus in services, the trade deficit in goods with the European Union and Mexico grew more than 10 percent as imports rose faster than exports.In December, the overall deficit in goods and services, which includes everything from computers and washing machines to tourism and intellectual property, rose 19 percent from the previous month, to $59.8 billion. It was the highest monthly trade deficit since 2008, when the American economy was mired in recession.Several global economic factors explain the widening of the deficit last year. China’s slowdown has reduced consumer appetite for American goods, as has slowing growth in Europe. The strength of the dollar in global currency markets has made it cheaper for American consumers to buy foreign-made goods, and more difficult for foreign customers to buy American-made ones.That helped fuel a record number of Chinese goods imported into the United States. The trade gap in goods between the United States and China hit $419 billion in 2018, deepening a bilateral deficit that has been a particular source of anger for Mr. Trump.
Trade balance between the United States and select countries, 2018
China
$100b
200
300
400
500
Imports
Exports
$419 billion
The trade deficit is the value of imported goods less the value of exported goods.
European Union
Imports
Exports
169
Mexico
Imports
Exports
82
Canada
Imports
Exports
20
Trade balance between the United States
and select countries, 2018
China
200
400
Imports
Exports
$419 billion
The trade deficit is the value of imported goods less the value of exported goods
European Union
Imports
Exports
169
Mexico
Imports
Exports
82
Canada
Imports
Exports
20
Note:
Figures are not seasonally adjusted | Source: The United States Bureau of Economic AnalysisBy The New York TimesWhile Mr. Trump sees the trade deficit as a sort of economic scorecard for which country is on top, most economists disagree with this perspective, viewing trade deficits not as a sign of economic strength or weakness, but as a function of macroeconomic factors like investment flows, fluctuations in the value of currency and relative growth rates.And as the trade deficit widens, Mr. Trump’s focus on it has resulted in a particular irony: By his own metric, the president is failing to right America’s global trading relationships. Yet many of the president’s critics do not blame him for this, saying some fluctuations in the trade deficit are largely beyond his control.“The stronger trade deficit in the short run is telling you we’re importing more, so it’s not a particular alarming development,” said Lawrence H. Summers, a Harvard economist who directed the National Economic Council under President Barack Obama. “The president notwithstanding, I’d rather live in a country that capital is trying to get into, rather than get out of. The reason we have a trade deficit is people are investing in America.”Mr. Trump has aimed tariffs at China, Europe, Canada and Mexico to help reset the trade balance with other countries that he says engage in unfair practices to gain a competitive edge in global trade.That is particularly true with China, which Mr. Trump and many business groups say tilts the balance of power by providing state subsidies, blocking foreign competition and engaging in other tactics. His top advisers are pressing Beijing to commit to a specific target for reducing the bilateral trade imbalance between the countries. While the Chinese have offered to make large purchases of American products, including soybeans and liquefied natural gas, they have resisted setting a specific dollar target for the trade balance, arguing that such a metric is largely beyond their control.In a congressional hearing last week, Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, held up a chart that showed a steadily rising trade deficit with China. Also marked on the chart were various negotiations past administrations had held with China, which Mr. Lighthizer said had failed to stem the deficit’s rise. He called the deficit with China, along with China’s unfair trade practices, “major threats to our economy.”The value of China’s currency, which is determined partly by the market and partly by the government, weakened against the dollar last year, blunting the effect of Mr. Trump’s tariffs by making Chinese goods even cheaper. The currency began rising again in the fall, as President Xi Jinping of China met Mr. Trump in Argentina late last year to begin hammering out a trade pact, said Brad Setser, a senior fellow for international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations.“China certainly allowed the market to push the value of the yuan down against the dollar over the summer,” Mr. Setser said.As part of the trade deal in the works, the United States has secured a commitment from Beijing not to artificially weaken its currency, according to administration officials.The relative strength of the United States economy is also a large factor in the widening deficit, along with the $1.5 trillion tax cut Mr. Trump signed in 2017, which accelerated growth last year.Money from the tax cuts helped Americans buy more imported goods than ever in 2018. And to finance the tax cuts, the government needed to borrow more dollars, some of which came from foreign investors. Foreigners primarily get those dollars by selling more goods and services to Americans, which will necessarily widen the trade gap, an effect that many economists predicted at the time Mr. Trump signed the tax cuts.The tax cuts are also helping to swell the federal budget deficit, which Mr. Trump similarly pledged to reduce — and, in fact, eliminate — as a candidate. On Tuesday, Treasury Department figures showed the budget deficit widening, and it is on track to top $1 trillion this fiscal year. Revenue from personal and corporate income taxes was down by 9 percent in January, compared with the same month a year ago.As with the trade deficit, many economists are growing less alarmed by the budget deficit than in previous years. However, Federal Reserve officials and some economists warn that federal borrowing is growing too quickly and will ultimately swamp the American economy, with the United States paying huge sums of interest on the debt, diverting funds from social safety net programs like Medicare and Social Security. The Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, warned lawmakers at a House hearing last week that the federal debt was on an “unsustainable” path.Mr. Powell was asked during the hearing if he would also say that the trade deficit was unsustainable. “I don’t think I would say that,” he replied. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: U.S. Trade Deficit Under President Bulges to Record. 

Opinion | Trump Mocks Climate Change. That’s a Key to Defeating Him. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|Trump Mocks Climate Change. That’s a Key to Defeating Him.AdvertisementOpinionSupported byTrump Mocks Climate Change. That’s a Key to Defeating Him.A Green Real Deal will put the president on the defensive in the next election.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistApril 9, 2019ImageA wind farm near Glenrock, Wyo.CreditCreditDamon Winter/The New York TimesHere’s some news you may have missed. Southeastern Africa got hit in March with a cyclone that United Nations officials say was one of the worst weather disasters to ever strike the Southern Hemisphere. “Ever” is a long time. The storm swept through Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe, killing hundreds. My friend Greg Carr, who runs the Gorongosa National Park in Mozambique, told me that the lions, elephants and zebras sensed the storm coming and moved to higher ground to avoid the flooding. Among the people and birds that survived, many of the former lost their homes and the latter their nests and eggs.ImageBeira, the fourth-largest city in Mozambique, was devastated last month by Cyclone Idai.CreditMike Hutchings/ReutersWhile this historic weather disaster was unfolding, President Trump was urging Republicans not to kill the Democrats’ Green New Deal proposal — not because Trump wants to work with it, but because he wants to run against it in 2020.Trump wants to take the Green New Deal, co-sponsored by Senator Ed Markey of Massachusetts and Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of the Bronx, and mock its aspiration to urgently decarbonize our electric grid, transportation sector, industries and buildings, while pairing all that with programs to ensure that every American can get a job and have access to health care and “safe, affordable, adequate housing,” as well as other social goods.AOC’s rejoinder: “For everyone who wants to make a joke about that, you may laugh, but your grandkids will not.”She is right. And given the choice between a “Green New Deal” that envisions scaling justice for all and Trump’s “Black New Deal,” which protects profitable pollution for the 1 percent, my heart is with the greens. But my head says you can’t transform our energy system and our social/economic one at scale all at once. We have to prioritize energy/climate. Because for the environment, later will be too late. Later is officially over.And if Democrats approach this right — with a barrage of political ads paired with a focused green strategy, like the “Green Real Deal” proposed by Ernie Moniz, Barack Obama’s energy secretary, and Andy Karsner, George W. Bush’s assistant energy secretary for renewable energy — they can win on this issue in 2020 and make Trump the laughingstock.Here are the kinds of political ads I’d run:The Department of Energy’s 2017 U.S. Energy and Employment Report revealed that solar energy was employing more workers than the traditional coal, gas and oil industries combined. But Trump says he prefers big, beautiful coal. How do your kids feel about that?ImageSolar energy is part of California's future.CreditDavid McNew/Getty ImagesThe heartland of America’s wind energy system today is Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Wyoming, North Dakota and Iowa, which all voted for Trump in 2016. But Trump says noise from wind turbines “causes cancer.” Do you buy that?Cyclone Idai devastated some of the greatest wilderness areas in Africa. Trump couldn’t care less. Do you? Because another decade of storms like that, and the only lions, elephants and zebras your grandkids will ever see will be in a Disney movie.Newsweek just reported that a study published in the journal Nature found that the replenishment of new coral in Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, one of the true natural wonders on our planet, “fell by a staggering 89 percent following two severe mass bleaching events in 2016 and 2017, which were caused by significant spikes in water temperature. The two bleaching events were the worst in recorded history, leading to a catastrophic die-off in many regions of the 3,800 individual reefs that comprise the world’s largest reef system.” Your grandkids may never see a real coral reef. Trump couldn’t care less. Do you?ImageBleached corals on the Great Barrier Reef in 2017.CreditGergely Torda/ARC Center of Excellence for Coral Reef StudiesI’d pound Trump with these points, but they will be effective only if married to a “Green Real Deal.” For Moniz and Karsner, that would involve every state or city adopting its own version of a plan California approved last year called S.B. 100.S.B. 100, which was spearheaded by State Senator Kevin de León, an unsung hero of the green movement, mandated that power companies steadily increase carbon-free electricity on their grid until it reaches 100 percent by 2045. As David Roberts wrote for Vox, de León kept “the bill simple and direct enough to command broad support. … Somehow, everyone saw themselves in S.B. 100. Labor and business, nukes and renewables, markets and mandates, cats and dogs — somehow the bill hit the sweet spot. It contained enough substance to matter, but not so many bells and whistles that everyone found something to hate.”The law sets a steadily rising standard for California power generation companies: 50 percent renewables by 2026, 60 percent renewables by 2030 and 100 percent carbon-free — so as to include energy sources that aren’t actually renewable, but don’t emit carbon dioxide— — by 2045. So wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, large hydro, nuclear power and natural gas paired with carbon capture and storage (C.C.S.) can all play, plus whatever new clean power gets invented. And the steadily rising California standard guarantees they’ll all have a growing market to sell into.A Green Real Deal would be a nationwide effort to inspire and enable Democrats and sensible Republicans to come up with state and local versions of S.B. 100 and thereby stimulate America’s earth race — not space race — to get to national net-zero emissions by 2045, or earlier.It could garner a lot of G.O.P. support in wind states, businesses could make money off it, and it would put Trump totally on the defensive.As Moniz and Karsner wrote in an essay on CNBC.com: “Climate deniers, as well as those with demonstrably impractical, short-term, feel-good solutions, are moving us sideways when forward motion is essential.”ImageStudents demanding action on climate change in Washington in March.CreditTom Brenner/Getty ImagesA Green Real Deal, they argue in The Santa Barbara Independent, would set “ambitious, but achievable, stretch goals that can be flexibly met and spur innovation and prosperity.”Trump is vulnerable to a bipartisan, industry-friendly plan like this. Last year, The Atlantic reported that “a coalition of 34 student groups from around the country — including 23 chapters of the College Republican — announced the formation of Students for Carbon Dividends, a bipartisan group calling for national legislation to fight climate change. … It marks the first time that a coalition of College Republican groups has publicly backed a climate-change policy.”Glenn Prickett, founder of Rock Creek Strategies, which advises organizations and companies on how to incorporate the value of nature into economic development, remarked to me: “I have been sensing something in the air that I have not felt since the late 1980s — when global warming first became prominent and Time
magazine made Planet Earth the Person of the Year — and that is that people really want the government to take this issue seriously. I have to give AOC credit for helping get it back on the agenda.”Prickett added: “I spent 25 years talking about what would happen if we don’t address this issue. Now I have to correct myself and say what is happening.” The impacts are real and they are here, “but what is new is that while the politics remain polarized, business leadership is getting behind this issue and we now have the technologies to create scale solutions.”I repeat: Later will be too late. So let me end where I began — with Greg Carr in Mozambique’s Gorongosa Park, one million acres of wilderness, which has been protecting both wildlife and the 200,000 people living around it.First of all, Carr noted by phone, “nearly half of Gorongosa Park is now a lake,” thanks to Cyclone Idai, but its trees and soils “acted like a giant sponge and absorbed tons of water,” so flooding of communities downstream was not as bad as it could have been. Parks mitigate climate extremes. “Hurricanes are going to be more of a problem, and more nature is the solution. I am talking to the government about creating another 250,000 acres of wetland conservancy to the south of us to soak up more water, because this will not be our last cyclone.”ImageWomen displaced by Cyclone Idai waiting in line for food in Beira.CreditMike Hutchings/ReutersIt was also Carr’s 260 park rangers who delivered 100,000 pounds of food, rescue teams and new seeds for replanting flooded crops to all the villagers living around them. (To help, go to gorongosa.org/cyclone_relief_fund.) Carr wants to see national parks in Africa transformed from just tourist sites to economic development engines, absorbers of climate change and first responders to disaster.Low-lying coastal cities in America should be thinking the same. Nine out of 10 homes in Beira — Mozambique’s fourth-largest city, on its coast — were devastated by Idai. Gorongosa is upstream from Beira and absorbed enough water to prevent that port city from being wiped off the face of the earth, Carr said.A Green Real Deal — if framed and focused properly — could wipe that smirk right off Trump’s face.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.
@tomfriedman • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: A Green Real Deal, for Real Results Soon. 

Liberal Democrats Formally Call for a ‘Green New Deal,’ Giving Substance to a Rallying Cry - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexClimateSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperClimate|Liberal Democrats Formally Call for a ‘Green New Deal,’ Giving Substance to a Rallying CryAdvertisementSupported byLiberal Democrats Formally Call for a ‘Green New Deal,’ Giving Substance to a Rallying Cry VideoHouse Democrats introduced a resolution calling for a sweeping environmental and economic mobilization that would make the United States carbon neutral by 2030.CreditCreditPete Marovich for The New York TimesBy Lisa Friedman and Glenn ThrushFeb. 7, 2019Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — Liberal Democrats put flesh on their “Green New Deal” slogan on Thursday with a sweeping resolution intended to redefine the national debate on climate change by calling for the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030.The measure, drafted by freshman Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, is intended to answer the demand, by the party’s restive base, for a grand strategy that combats climate change, creates jobs and offers an affirmative response to the challenge to core party values posed by President Trump.The resolution has more breadth than detail and is so ambitious that Republicans greeted it with derision. Its legislative prospects are bleak in the foreseeable future; Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has no plan to bring the resolution in its current form to the floor for a vote, according to a Democratic leadership aide with direct knowledge of her plans.But as a blueprint for liberal ambition, it was breathtaking. It includes a 10-year commitment to convert “100 percent of the power demand in the United States” to “clean, renewable and zero-emission energy sources,” to upgrade “all existing buildings” to meet energy efficiency requirements, and to expand high-speed rail so broadly that most air travel would be rendered obsolete.The initiative, introduced as nonbinding resolutions in the House and Senate, is tethered to an infrastructure program that its authors say could create millions of new “green jobs,” while guaranteeing health care, “a family-sustaining wage, adequate family and medical leave, paid vacations and retirement security” to every American.[A “Green New Deal” may be far from reality, but it’s a different story at the state level.]“Climate change and our environmental challenges are the biggest existential threats to our way of life,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said on Thursday. “We must be as ambitious and innovative in our solutions as possible.”Mr. Markey added, “We will save all of creation by engaging in massive job creation.”Document: ‘Green New Deal’ ResolutionThe House version calls for the United States “to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions.” (PDF, 14 pages, 0.05 MB)
14 pages, 0.05 MB
The resolution, modeled on Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal in the 1930s, will not move in its current form, but some ideas could advance as part of more modest legislation to address the climate crisis. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the chief architect of the deal, is not part of a new special select committee on climate change. She and Ms. Pelosi’s office said that she had been offered a seat on the committee but that she declined it, an assertion confirmed by an aide to Ms. Pelosi.“Frankly, I haven’t seen it,” the speaker told reporters when asked about the Green New Deal proposal during her weekly media availability at the Capitol on Thursday. “But I do know it is enthusiastic, and we welcome all the enthusiasm that is out there.”Ms. Pelosi is likely mindful of her own past mistakes. A decade ago she pushed the last major climate change measure hard, an ambitious bill to cap emissions of climate-warming pollution, then allow industries to trade emissions credits on a pollution credit market. Through force of will, she got the cap-and-trade measure through the House, only to see it die in the Senate without a vote. The next year, Democrats were swept from power, in part because of that vote and the Republicans’ framing of it as a stealth tax hike.In that Congress, she had a Democratic Senate and a Democratic president, Barack Obama. This time, she has Mr. Trump, a president who calls climate change a hoax, and a Senate in the control of Mitch McConnell, a Republican majority leader from the coal state of Kentucky.But on Thursday, she was also intent on letting her critics on the left know about her own past efforts, adding that she had made climate change the “flagship issue” of her first speakership.Proponents of the Green New Deal insisted that Democrats were unified. Both Mr. Markey and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez praised Ms. Pelosi as a “leader” on climate change, and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said she was not offended by Ms. Pelosi’s description of the Green New Deal in an interview with Politico on Wednesday as the “green dream, or whatever they call it.”“I think it is a green dream,” Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said. “I will not allow our caucus to be divided by whatever narrative.” Republicans seized on the proposal with relish, portraying the entire resolution as absurd.“The socialist Democrats are off to a great start with the roll out of their ridiculous Green New Deal today!” said Bob Salera, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, the political arm of House Republicans, who called the idea “zany.”The Republican National Committee derided it as “a socialist wish list.”But Democratic candidates for the presidency did not shy away from it once details emerged. Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, quickly sent out a fund-raising appeal, declaring: “For too long, we have been governed by lawmakers who are beholden to Big Oil and Big Coal. They have refused to act on climate change. So it’s on us to speak the truth, rooted in science fact, not science fiction.”Senators Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York; Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey; and Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, also co-sponsored the measure, which has early support from about 60 House and Senate Democrats.For all of the resolution’s audacity, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and Mr. Markey also steered clear of several thorny issues, and there were even signs of concessions to moderate Democrats and Republicans interested in working on clean energy issues.For example, the resolution does not specify a date for eliminating planet-warming emissions, instead calling for the elimination of fossil fuels from major economic sectors “as much as technologically feasible.” It also avoids denouncing specific types of clean energy alternatives, specifically nuclear power, which in the past has come under fire from climate change activists despite being a zero-carbon form of energy. An early version of the resolution called for phasing out nuclear energy within a decade.The resolution also sidesteps any discussion of carbon capture and storage technology, which Green New Deal supporters had previously criticized on the grounds that it would enable the continued use of fossil fuels.Mr. Markey said the resolution is purposefully “silent on individual technologies.”Instead the resolution calls for generating all electricity through renewable sources like wind and solar within 10 years, eliminating greenhouse emissions in manufacturing and forestry “as much as is technologically feasible,” and re-engineering cars and trucks to end climate pollution.The measure also includes social justice goals not usually attached to antipollution plans, like eradicating poverty by creating high-paid jobs.But the resolution goes far beyond that, touching on themes that are animating a rising left but rarely reach the halls of Congress. It aims to “promote justice and equity by stopping current, preventing future and repairing historic oppression of indigenous peoples, communities of color, migrant communities, deindustrialized communities, depopulated rural communities, the poor, low-income workers, women, the elderly, the unhoused, people with disabilities and youth.”Mr. Markey, who co-sponsored the failed cap-and-trade measure with former Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, said he thought the public was far more ready than in 2009 to support climate change legislation. A decade ago, he said, fossil-fuel backed interest groups poured money into convincing the public that climate change was not real.“The green generation has risen up, and they are saying we want this issue solved,” Mr. Markey said. “We now have the troops, we now have the money, and we’re ready to fight.”For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.
@LFFriedman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Unveiling a ‘Green New Deal,’ And Ambition on a Vast Scale. 

Ed Cheserek Runs On - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSportsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSports|Ed Cheserek Runs OnAdvertisementSupported byEd Cheserek Runs On The 17-time collegiate national champion is now 25 and trying to figure out exactly who he is, and which country he will represent. ImageEdward Cheserek (13) in the men's elite mile on Feb. 2 at a meet in Winston-Salem, N.C. Cheserek won with a time of 3 minutes 55.74 seconds on his birthday.CreditCreditVeasey Conway for The New York TimesBy Matthew FuttermanFeb. 8, 2019For years now, nearly a decade, Ed Cheserek’s path seemed obvious.A gifted teenage runner from Kenya, he had become a high school sensation at St. Benedict’s Prep in Newark, and then a star at the University of Oregon. A distance specialist, Cheserek could win races as long as 10,000 meters, or drop down and a run a sub-four-minute mile as needed. Cheserek won 17 national championships at Oregon, and when he graduated in 2017, he was the most decorated runner in N.C.A.A. history.His next move seemed clear. He would become an American citizen and represent the country in the biggest distance races and the biggest competitions the way other runners born in Africa — Bernard Lagat, Meb Keflezighi, Abdi Abdirahman — had done before him.It has not gone that way, not yet anyway. Instead, Cheserek, now 25 and back in New York this week to run in the Wanamaker Mile at the Millrose Games, is caught between two countries, trapped in a dispute involving immigration law, specialized work visas and the strange question of just how elite a runner he can claim to be. All this is unfolding as Cheserek evolves, trying to become the runner he has always wanted to be. Like plenty of other 20-somethings, he is learning that the path to what he wants is rarely as straight, or as simple, as it once seemed.He has moved to Flagstaff, Ariz., where he trains at elevation alongside some of the best distance runners in the world. It feels like home, he said, but his application for a green card has been rejected. Even receiving a temporary work visa, something that seemed as if it would be simple given his elite skills, has proved difficult. His lawyer uses stronger words to describe the process: “arbitrary and capricious,” though he said the difficulties went back to the years of the Obama presidency.“All I can do is just keep running until they decide what they decide,” Cheserek said in a telephone interview this week.Mostly, he has been very good at that. Cheserek ran the second-fastest indoor mile ever last year, finishing in 3 minutes 49.44 seconds at the David Hemery Valentine Invitational in Boston, but he is certain his greatest successes will come in the 5,000 and the 10,000. Just 5-foot-6 but with the chiseled physique of an undersize N.F.L. cornerback, Cheserek has a stride that, regardless of how fast he is running, makes him appear to float across any distance. Other than the slightest roll of his shoulders, he is a model of what looks like effortless efficiency. Then in an instant, he produces his trademark burst of speed that, throughout college at least, almost always left his competition far behind.“He’s a kind of freakish combination of strength and speed,” said Stephen Haas, who has been coaching Cheserek for the past year.ImageOregon’s Edward Cheserek reacted as he runs toward the finish line to win the men’s N.C.A.A. Division I cross-country championships in 2013 in Terre Haute, Ind.CreditDarron Cummings/Associated PressIt is also what sets him apart. Consider Keflezighi, for example, the winner of the New York City and Boston Marathons and a versatile athlete who like Cheserek won national championships in cross-country and at 5,000 and 10,000 meters in college. Keflezighi has never broken four minutes for the mile. Mo Farah, widely considered the world’s most versatile distance runner, has never run a mile faster than 3:56.Cheserek, though, has plenty of ground to make up in the longer distances before he can be considered world class in those events, where even his best times are 43 seconds off the world record in the 5,000 and more than two minutes behind the mark in the 10,000.To be fair, Cheserek has yet to have a complete and healthy outdoor season as a professional. Haas said he was certain an injury-free cycle of training that now included 100-mile-plus weeks and faster, longer runs as Cheserek headed into the spring and summer was going to produce significant breakthroughs at the distances Cheserek believes are his specialty.A glimpse of the future may have occurred at the Manchester Road Race in Connecticut on a frigid Thanksgiving morning last fall, when the runner known as King Cheserek at Oregon set a course record. He ran the 4.75-mile course in 21:16, beating Paul Chelimo, the 5,000-meter silver medalist at the 2016 Rio Olympics, and Andy Butchart, a British Olympian, by 30 seconds.So does he now prefer the roads to the track? “Roads, track, I don’t care,” Cheserek said. “Running is running.”Exactly what country he will represent is a much more complex question. Thomas Young, a Colorado immigration lawyer who has represented many athletes and now oversees Cheserek’s citizenship case, said the process had become much less predictable since 2015, before President Trump was elected.Cheserek has said since high school that his dream is to become an American citizen and to represent the United States in the Olympics. It should be noted that American distance running teams are usually easier to make than Kenyan ones, though Cheserek’s indoor mile time last year set a Kenyan record.Cheserek’s current challenge is that he attended Oregon on a student visa and was not able to obtain a green card while he was there, Young said. After Oregon, he applied for a green card, seeking approval on the basis of his athletic accomplishments, but was told he had not proved himself against pro runners. “If 17 N.C.A.A. championships won’t get you a green card, nothing will,” Young said.Until Cheserek has a green card, the clock cannot start ticking on the five years he has to wait before he can apply for United States citizenship. An act of Congress could expedite that process, but not much else. So if Cheserek, approaching his prime, wants to appear at this year’s world championships or next year’s Olympics in Tokyo, he will have to do it running for Kenya. (A later switch of nationality is allowed under international track and field rules.)In the meantime, Young has helped Cheserek obtain a P1 visa, more commonly referred to as the athlete and artist visa. It allows people who can demonstrate extraordinary talent to live and work in the United States for up to five years because their professions require the participation of the best people in the world. (Think of foreign-born N.B.A. stars and virtuoso violinists.)In January 2018, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which does not comment on individual cases, granted Cheserek a P1 visa for only one year rather than five.ImageCheserek has become one of the best-known runners in the United States.CreditVeasey Conway for The New York TimesAn application to extend his visa is still under review. Immigration officials have questioned whether the track meets and races Cheserek was participating in really required athletes of “international recognition,” as the statute states. Young said the concerns about Cheserek’s schedule were unfounded because the events he wanted to run — which included the New Balance Indoor Grand Prix, the Millrose Games and the Prefontaine Classic — were among the most prestigious meets in the world, so of course they required the services of internationally recognized athletes.Cheserek has until April 15 to file additional information. He is allowed to continue living and training in the United States until the case is decided, which may take several months.Until then, all he can do is run. The best result he can hope for is the path of Lagat, who attended Washington State. Lagat began his career running for Kenya but then represented the United States after gaining citizenship.“These athletes have a very short window of time to compete at the highest level internationally,” said Chris Lane, Cheserek’s agent. “We don’t want to restrict Ed from accomplishing his goals, and those include medals in the worlds and the Olympics.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Even With 17 N.C.A.A. Titles, a U.S. Visa May Be Out of Reach. 

I Think My Former Employer Is Underpaying a Black Employee. Should I Tell Her? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperI Think My Former Employer Is Underpaying a Black Employee. Should I Tell Her?AdvertisementSupported byThe EthicistI Think My Former Employer Is Underpaying a Black Employee. Should I Tell Her?ImageCreditCreditIllustration by Tomi UmBy Kwame Anthony AppiahFeb. 26, 2019I worked in human resources at a national nonprofit organization with more than 100 employees. In the summer, we hired two people for the same position. They had similar educational and work experience. One of the employees is a black woman living in a large city in Florida, and the other is a white woman living in a small city in the Midwest. When the employee in the Midwest was offered the position, the hiring manager did not consult the human-resources department and offered her a salary above the typical range. The employee in Florida was hired just a few days later and was offered a salary several thousands of dollars below what the Midwestern employee makes. The cost of living is significantly less in the part of the Midwest where the white employee lives, making the wage difference illogical. I am also furious that the nonprofit is paying a woman of color significantly less than a white woman, simply because of organizational politics.Although I brought this up to my boss, I heard nothing about any attempts to address the situation. I have since left the organization. Do I have a moral obligation to tell the employee in Florida about the wage discrepancy and discrimination? Name WithheldHere’s one difficulty in doing anything about overall disparities in income between men and women, and between whites and blacks: Even after we have established a general pattern, identifying the social mechanisms that sustain it can be a complex matter. And it hasn’t been easy to study pay discrimination in a systematic way, because data has been sparse. That’s one reason the Obama administration decided to collect information from larger employers about how they pay workers of different sexes and racial and ethnic backgrounds, in a program that was to have started in 2018. It may also be why the current administration suspended the program indefinitely. You can’t manage what you can’t measure, as the old business saw goes. And if you don’t want to address a problem, you might prefer not to be informed about it.Here we’re looking at two differently rewarded workers who are doing more or less the same job for the same organization for the same period. What might explain the disparity? Not credentials and work history, which you say were comparable. Not differences in seniority at your organization. And not differences in performance at your organization, given that we’re talking about starting salaries. Cost-of-living considerations only make the disparity greater. The only salient difference you’ve identified is in the employees’ race, and so, yes, bias is a serious possibility.You don’t make it clear whether these salaries were set by the same manager, though. Given the different locales, I’m guessing they weren’t. This complicates things. Now we have to consider the possibility that the Midwestern manager is habitually more generous. We also have to consider the possibility that the local job market in the Midwestern state was particularly competitive for someone with this job candidate’s credentials. Or the possibility that the Midwestern employee had a higher salary requirement. This could reflect greater seniority at her previous workplace. Or it could reflect past bias. These days, H.R. departments discourage questions about a job applicant’s salary history, in the hope that wrongful disparities won’t be perpetuated. In several cities and states, those questions are even forbidden by law. But the applicant is always free to convey her salary expectations and decline a job offer for less.Even if the disparity didn’t arise from racial bias on the part of those who set the salary, you might still find the results unfair. Shouldn’t people get equal pay for equal work? This principle can be tricky to implement, however. Your organization is competing for workers with other organizations, so one factor in determining “fair” compensation is the market wage for comparable jobs. As a result, the same work may be better rewarded in one place than another. How fair is that? It’s too much to expect that people will agree about such issues.A basic element in our thoughts about fairness is, in fact, a negative one: You shouldn’t reward or penalize people on irrelevant grounds. Moral psychologists sometimes say that moral intuitions about fairness are fundamental and hard-wired, reminding us that even a very young child will readily shout, “No fair!” Consider the recent experiment in which one monkey does a task and is rewarded with a grape (yum!), while another monkey, doing the same task by its side, is rewarded with a cucumber (yuck!). That second monkey throws a cage-rattling temper tantrum.But let’s be precise: These are really intuitions about unfairness. We have an easier time agreeing about what’s unfair than about what’s fair. (Similarly, we can agree about instances of inequality without agreeing about what full equality would consist in.) That’s O.K. A simple sense that it’s unfair to be advantaged or disadvantaged at the workplace by characteristics with no bearing on our ability to do the job is all we need to be troubled by evidence of discrimination — even if it’s a matter of what, in employment law, is termed “disparate impact,” rather than “disparate treatment.”One way to reduce these disparities is to have workplace policies that include this simple thought: You ought to have some reason for paying different amounts to people doing roughly the same work. If you don’t have a policy like that, all sorts of biases are more likely to come into play. (Labor economists have, for instance, shown that employees often get a premium just for being conventionally attractive. Catherine Hakim, a British sociologist, introduced the term “erotic capital” to reflect this fact.) The manager who decided to offer several thousand dollars over the target salary should have been required to give a serious explanation as to why. Only by being systematic here can we achieve the reasonable aim of a society where there aren’t rewards for being white (or attractive or male) or penalties for not being white (or attractive or male).Ethical organizations want to avoid unfair practices in pay. So your employers may have a problem, assuming you’ve got all the pertinent facts here. (Whether you do will depend on your knowing the details about both negotiations, and being in the human-resources department doesn’t guarantee that.) You shared your concerns with your boss, and you don’t think this had any effect. True, you’re evidently not certain or you would have said something stronger than “I heard nothing,” but let’s figure you’re right. You may nonetheless have achieved something, which is to make the head of H.R. think about the issue. That’s the first step to adopting policies that would give more attention to avoiding bias.At the same time, I can see why the H.R. director might not have done anything. You can’t tell someone you’ve just hired that you’ll be paying less than you promised. And giving the black worker in Florida an unasked-for pay hike would cost the organization a chunk of unbudgeted money (and open it up to having to adjust others’ salaries too). Suppose the hiring manager in the Midwest messed up by offering too much. Putting it right would involve other managers. It would cause a fuss. And avoiding fuss is typically the first aim of management.Given that you left, there’s not much the organization can do to you if you inform the employee in Florida about what you learned. She might indeed be able to use the information to get a raise, although she would have to put her relationships in a new job at risk, perhaps gaining an undeserved reputation as a troublemaker. Whether it would be a good strategy for her is, of course, something she could decide for herself.The main argument against what you’re considering is that you would be revealing privileged information. In general, you have a duty not to do that unless what you’re revealing is an actual breach of a law or a serious ethical wrong. From what you’ve said, I doubt this case meets that standard. But there certainly are people you can tell without violating the terms of your employment: the board members of the organization. They have a responsibility to see that the organization is an ethical employer, and making sure policies are in place to avoid bias is part of the task.Kwame Anthony Appiah teaches philosophy at N.Y.U. His books include “Cosmopolitanism,” “The Honor Code” and “The Lies That Bind: Rethinking Identity.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page 18 of the Sunday Magazine with the headline: I Think My Former Employer Is Underpaying a Black Employee. Should I Tell Her?. 

Opinion | The Joe Biden Media Frenzy - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperOpinion|The Joe Biden Media FrenzyAdvertisementOpinionSupported byThe Joe Biden Media FrenzyOnce again, journalists are giving in to their own worst instincts.By David GreenbergMr. Greenberg is a professor of history and of journalism and media studies at Rutgers.April 3, 2019ImageFormer Vice President Joe Biden.CreditCreditChase Stevens/Las Vegas Review-Journal, via Associated PressIn May 1987, Senator Gary Hart of Colorado was drummed out of the Democratic presidential contest following reports alleging an affair with Donna Rice, a 29-year-old woman who was not his wife.Months later, Douglas Ginsburg, a federal judge whom President Ronald Reagan had nominated for the Supreme Court, admitted that he had smoked marijuana years before, including as a young law professor, scuttling his candidacy.The next summer, the Republican presidential nominee, George Bush, chose the little-known Indiana Senator Dan Quayle as his running mate, leading to a frantic investigation into how Mr. Quayle had gotten into the Indiana National Guard instead of serving in the Vietnam War. (Rumors, never proven, also swirled about affairs and pot use.) Mr. Quayle stayed on the ticket, but never quite recovered.The late 1980s and 1990s marked a high-water mark for a kind of giddy journalistic derangement over politicians’ adultery, drug use and draft avoidance — a somewhat arbitrary trio of offenses inflated into mortal sins. Candidates and nominees for various public positions were barraged with questions on these issues, although no one ever showed that they bore on a person’s fitness for office. These orgies of saturation press coverage, feverish speculation and moral righteousness were dubbed feeding frenzies.In time, the manias subsided. Bill Clinton was elected president as an admitted philanderer. Barack Obama confessed to having used “a little blow” in his youth and no one cared. Not one of our baby-boomer presidents served in Vietnam — a fact that troubles few people today.So are we now able to evaluate aspirants for high office dispassionately, on the basis of their experience, achievements and qualifications? It sure isn’t looking that way. More likely, we have just dropped one bucket of shark bait and picked up another.We are now witnessing a feeding frenzy over Joe Biden’s penchant for sometimes-unwelcome public displays of affection. Mr. Biden, who is famous for overly tactile friendliness, has been dealing with two women’s charges that he upset them by greeting them far too intimately. Pundits are now discussing whether these actions should end Mr. Biden’s (as yet unannounced) presidential candidacy and even declaring point blank that he is the wrong man to succeed President Trump.Charges about inappropriate touching must be heard and evaluated. But the more difficult question for journalists is whether these charges should become grounds for feeding frenzies — all-consuming, multi-day stories that, by virtue of their blanket coverage, signal to audiences that they outweigh everything else about a candidate. Front-page stories, 24/7 coverage and viral tweets can easily knock someone out of contention. Should they? How the press handles Mr. Biden’s penchant for handling others will test whether it has learned from its mistakes in the days of Hart and Ginsburg and Quayle.A historical lens may help us see things with a bit more dispassion. The media obsession with a specific set of gotcha issues, the conviction that they warrant an expenditure of vast journalistic resources, dates to the years after the Vietnam War and Watergate. Chastened by those national traumas, Americans, including journalists, concluded that they had sprung from the debauched or deformed characters of President Johnson and especially President Nixon. “Character” became the watchword in politics.But character was defined at once too vaguely and too narrowly. The imperative to evaluate character was too broad in that it gave journalists license to vet aspirants for the presidency (as well as for the Supreme Court, Cabinet appointments and other offices) by prying into their personal lives.Yet it was also too narrow, because the peculiar foibles that the press fixated on were hardly sufficient to adequately judge someone’s integrity or maturity or temperament. The issues of sex, drugs, and Vietnam loomed large for reporters of the Baby Boom generation because they provided an arena in which to work through unresolved feelings about the cultural transformations of the 1960s.Eventually, the maturation of Generation X — whose members were largely unfazed by tales of sex, pot and draft dodging — diminished the potential of the boomers’ pet issues to blossom into scandal. More broadly, the public was wearying of hyped-up controversies that, it was becoming clear, had little or no relevance to how a politician performed his or her job.Recently, though, America experienced another trauma. The election of Donald Trump — a rank misogynist and confessed sexual assaulter — over a woman seemingly destined to be America’s first female president jolted many voters. Among its other effects, Trump’s election helped spark the explosion of women’s activism we have seen since 2016, including the long-overdue insistence that we call sexual harassers and assaulters to account. If Mr. Trump couldn’t be stopped, others guilty of like offenses would be policed with new vigor.As many people recognize, however, for all the big shots, predators and cads rightly brought to justice, there have also been moments of excess — of sober judgment suspended. Most infamously, in late 2017, following multiple claims of inappropriate touching, the Senate peremptorily cast out Minnesota’s Al Franken, before an ethics investigation could even occur. Mr. Franken denied that his actions amounted to sexual harassment, and apologized for them anyway. But when two new stories were posted to the internet in early December, his senate colleague Kirsten Gillibrand led a parade of lawmakers who demanded he give up his seat.Like Gary Hart, Mr. Franken cannot blame others entirely, since he chose to step down. But a lot of Americans had and still have grave qualms about the lack of due process he was afforded. Clearly, both the media and the political class bore some responsibility for ratcheting up the pressure on him, instead of calling — as they could have — for cool deliberation to determine what actually happened, how severe his offenses were, and whether they should overshadow the many reasons his constituents might wish him to keep serving (as polls suggested they did).It is possible to cover stories such as these without creating feeding frenzies. Journalists can run fewer stories on a subject, talk about it once a day on cable news and not every hour, assume a matter-of-fact tone, remind themselves that Twitter isn’t public opinion, question scandal material shopped by someone’s political rivals, and in other ways bear in mind that many people deplore the media proclivity for these furors. When scandals relating to personal behavior arise, they can also ask themselves whether those behaviors reflect at all on how the politician might deal with Vladimir Putin, restore democracy to Venezuela, solve an immigration crisis or economic meltdown, or develop a plan for addressing health-care costs or planetary dangers. And thoughtful coverage can illuminate the immense differences between, for example, Mr. Biden’s occasionally cringe-worthy physicality and Mr. Trump’s contempt-filled view of women as veritable pieces of meat.Without such a tempered media environment, though, it is easy to imagine Mr. Biden or other candidates succumbing to media pressure as Mr. Franken did, without any careful weighing of the nature, severity and relevance of the alleged wrongdoing. Nonetheless, in our scandal-soaked past there have also been politicians who withstood a media battering only to find their courage rewarded with the news that the public supported them all along — and that the headlines and headline news did not reflect popular opinion.In 1989, for example, after disclosures that Massachusetts Representative Barney Frank had hired a male prostitute and kept the man on his payroll, many politicians, along with the Boston Globe, called on the congressman to resign. Mr. Frank resisted the pressure, submitted himself to the judgment of his constituents, and was reelected twelve more times.Read moreOpinion coverage of Joe Biden.Opinion | Ross Douthat: The Real Joe Biden DecisionApril 2, 2019Opinion | Michelle Goldberg: The Wrong Time for Joe BidenApril 1, 2019Opinion | David Leonhardt: In Biden’s DefenseApril 2, 2019Bill Clinton, too, stoutly rejected the pundits’ calls during the Monica Lewinsky scandal that he abdicate, and he withstood impeachment by a Republican-controlled House of Representatives. His approval ratings soared as the drama dragged on, showing again that voters don’t always agree when a media mob calls for a politician’s head.More recently, Governor Ralph Northam of Virginia was found to have displayed a photo in his medical-school yearbook of a student in blackface beside another one in Klan robes. Despite a cascade of calls for his resignation, he instead vowed to redouble his commitment to racial justice — and, a short while later, it turned out that most African-Americans in the state wanted him to stay put.These politicians at some level appreciated that a feeding frenzy is typically not a mirror but a distortion of public opinion. Consciously or intuitively, most of us know that public morality is distinct from private morality — that a great president or Supreme Court justice can be a flawed or rotten person, and a noble soul might be a lousy senator or governor. (Of course, we can all think of a horrible human being who also made a terrible president.) We need to remember that when we grill candidates about the taboo du jour, we aren’t helping ourselves understand their suitability for leadership but rather working through other cultural concerns.As for character, the real test of it may be whether a politician has the fortitude and self-confidence to brave the media storm.David Greenberg is a professor of history and of journalism and media studies at Rutgers University and the author of “Republic of Spin: An Inside History of the American Presidency.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: The Joe Biden Media Frenzy. 

Defying Congress, Trump Plans to Renew Fight for Border Wall Funding - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexEconomySubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperEconomy|Defying Congress, Trump Plans to Renew Fight for Border Wall FundingAdvertisementSupported byDefying Congress, Trump Plans to Renew Fight for Border Wall FundingImagePresident Trump’s proposed budget is expected to include more funds for a wall but spending cuts in other areas.CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesBy Peter Baker and Jim TankersleyMarch 10, 2019WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — President Trump, undaunted by perhaps the most bruising legislative defeat of his tenure, plans to kick off a fresh effort on Monday to pressure Congress to pay for a wall along the southwestern border, most likely setting up another showdown with Democrats who have vowed to block his signature project.Mr. Trump, who failed to extract even a single extra dollar for his wall during a winter battle that shut down parts of the federal government for a record 35 days, will request $8.6 billion in the annual budget proposal, aides said. He will also ask Congress for another $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds he has diverted to begin work on the wall by declaring a national emergency, for a total of $12.2 billion.“I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser. “We have a crisis down there.” Speaking on “Fox News Sunday,” Mr. Kudlow acknowledged that “there will be” a fight over the issue in Congress.That may be an understatement. Just as Mr. Trump has relentlessly made the wall his highest domestic priority as he gears up for a re-election bid next year, Democrats who took control in the House in January have made it a litmus test of their determination to stand up to his immigration policies.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, did not even wait for the new wall request to reach Capitol Hill before declaring it dead on arrival on Sunday.“Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat and reopen the government,” they said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again. We hope he learned his lesson.”The budget Mr. Trump will send Congress on Monday will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money in the 2020 fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Aside from the proposed wall funding, administration officials said, the president will call for a sizable increase in military spending and significant cuts in domestic programs, neither of which Democrats are likely to accept.Mr. Trump’s fiscal plan will also indicate that he will not balance the budget during his presidency even if he wins a second term, despite his campaign promise not only to eliminate the annual deficit but to pay off the entire national debt accumulated over generations as well. His budget blueprint promises a balanced budget only in 15 years, long after he will have left office, aides said, and even that is predicated on growth estimates that seem unrealistically inflated to independent economists.At a time when most economic forecasters see growth slowing in the United States and around the world, the budget projects American growth will actually rise this year — to 3.2 percent, up from 2.9 percent for 2018. That is nearly a full percentage point higher than the 2.3 percent forecast by the Federal Reserve.Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said on Sunday that administration economists expected continued boosts to growth this year from the $1.5 trillion in tax cuts that Mr. Trump signed in 2017, including further increases in labor force participation by older workers.Other economists have criticized the sustained forecast of 3 percent growth over a decade as overly optimistic. Mr. Hassett defended it by pointing to the administration’s forecast for last year, which was only slightly above the actual growth rate. “We have the same forecast we had last year,” Mr. Hassett said, “because we got last year precisely correct.”The budget is the first of Mr. Trump’s tenure to theoretically adhere to spending caps that Congress adopted under President Barack Obama, only to bust in the years since. But Mr. Trump accomplishes this only through budgetary legerdemain by pushing much of his 4.7 percent military spending increase out of the regular budget and into an account called Overseas Contingency Operations that has been used mainly to finance wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria and has therefore been exempt from congressional caps.At the same time, domestic discretionary programs would be cut 5 percent, an idea certain to go nowhere with Democrats. Mr. Trump is hoping to avoid a repeat of last year’s budget deal, in which he was forced to agree to major domestic spending increases to secure his military boost. But he has even less sway now than he did last year, when Republicans controlled both houses of Congress.The overseas operations fund would receive $165 billion, compared with $69 billion this year, even as Mr. Trump is scaling back military operations in Afghanistan and Syria. The last time the fund had so much money was in the 2010 fiscal year, when the United States had nearly seven times as many troops in Afghanistan and Iraq.Among those who have criticized the overseas operations budget category as a “slush fund” is Mick Mulvaney, a Republican former congressman who served as Mr. Trump’s first budget director and is now the acting White House chief of staff.On the wall, the president seems more intent on proving to conservatives his commitment to building it than to finding a compromise with Democrats. Administration officials said the new $8.6 billion Mr. Trump is seeking would enable him to complete the project, with a total of 700 miles of barriers, most of it new, though with some sections refurbished.Mr. Trump, who spent the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, golfing and raising a reported $7 million for the coming elections, lashed out at Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator who has accused him of giving up too much on the wall.“Wacky Nut Job @AnnCoulter, who still hasn’t figured out that, despite all odds and an entire Democrat Party of Far Left Radicals against me (not to mention certain Republicans who are sadly unwilling to fight), I am winning on the Border,” he wrote on Twitter on Saturday.“Major sections of Wall are being built and renovated,” he added, “with MUCH MORE to follow shortly. Tens of thousands of illegals are being apprehended (captured) at the Border and NOT allowed into our Country. With another President, millions would be pouring in. I am stopping an invasion as the Wall gets built.”In December, Mr. Trump refused to accept $1.375 billion for barriers along the border — though not steel or concrete walls — and demanded that Congress instead give him $5.7 billion, resulting in the partial government shutdown that left agencies closed and 800,000 workers without pay.After five weeks, he gave in and agreed to reopen the government without concessions by the Democrats. The spending deal that ultimately passed both the Democratic-controlled House and the Republican-controlled Senate included just the $1.375 billion he had originally turned down.He signed grudgingly but then declared a national emergency to justify raiding $3.6 billion from a military construction fund for wall money. Relying on a president’s more traditional authority to move money around in limited ways, he also diverted another $3.1 billion from counternarcotics programs and an asset forfeiture fund. Combined with the $1.375 billion, that gave him about $8 billion for border barriers.Democrats and some Republicans objected to the national emergency declaration on the grounds that Mr. Trump was abusing the Constitution by appropriating money that Congress had explicitly refused to spend for that purpose. The House has voted to overturn his declaration, and enough Republicans have signaled that they will join Democrats to do the same in the Senate, presumably prompting what would be the first veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency. Critics do not have enough votes to override his veto, but lawsuits have been filed seeking to block his move.The budget to be unveiled on Monday would backfill the $3.6 billion from military construction projects, but officials did not say whether the other diverted money would be restored.Given the anger on the left over the national emergency declaration, it seemed hard to imagine that Democrats would agree to sanction it by reimbursing the money he took. “This ridiculous request, like the rest of the Trump budget, is not even worth the paper it’s written on,” said Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York and the chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee.Peter Baker reported from West Palm Beach, Fla., and Jim Tankersley from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Alan Rappeport, Michael Tackett, Nicholas Fandos and Chris Cameron from Washington. Follow Peter Baker and Jim Tankersley on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @jimtankersley.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: In Budget, Trump Makes Another Play for Wall. 

Who Will Be the 2020 Climate Candidate? There Are Lots of Choices - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexClimateSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperClimate|Who Will Be the 2020 Climate Candidate? There Are Lots of ChoicesAdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Who Will Be the 2020 Climate Candidate? There Are Lots of ChoicesAlso this week: We’re getting ready to live without plastic packaging. How hard could it be?By John Schwartz, Lisa Friedman and Eduardo GarciaMarch 6, 2019Welcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By John SchwartzHi, everybody!As the world heats up, we’re seeing the effects in the oceans, which have absorbed about 90 percent of the heat trapped by excess greenhouse gases since midcentury. Our colleague Kendra Pierre-Louis has written two warm-ocean articles since our last newsletter.One, with Nadja Popovich, looks at the increasing number of ocean heat waves and the damage they are doing to marine life. The other covers a study that says fish populations are declining as oceans warm, putting a major source of the world’s nutrition at risk.That’s more evidence that climate change is on the march. But in Washington, President Trump is increasingly isolated in his denial of climate science, even among some senior Republicans. He is still getting his way on environmental issues in Congress, however, most recently with the confirmation of Andrew R. Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, to head the Environmental Protection Agency.But activists are pushing the Democratic leadership to take on warming as a major issue. That hasn’t worked in the past, said David Axelrod, who was chief strategist to President Barack Obama. “Climate change, to our frustration, was never an issue that rung a bell with voters, particularly in the throes of coming out of an economic crisis,” he said. “But now we’re a decade down the road, and the road is surrounded by floods and fires in a way that is becoming more and more visible.”More visible, yes — but still open to a degree of rhetorical twisting. Brad Plumer explored the “weather wars,” in which scientists are increasingly comfortable explaining the links between extreme weather events and climate change, but every cold snap gets trumpeted by those who deny the scientific evidence for global warming.Another recent study suggested that people may become inured to weather extremes over time. The researchers looked at billions of messages on social media and found that when weather extremes occurred repeatedly, people were less likely to comment about them online. Researchers suggested that this phenomenon might limit the public’s willingness to support action on global warming.Well, you might ask, which is it? Will climate change shift the goal posts of normality, or will there be louder calls for action? The 2020 presidential race might help sort that out.2020: The year of the climate candidatesImageSenator Kirsten Gillibrand, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington and Senator Cory Booker.CreditNick Wagner/Austin American-Statesman, via Associated Press; Karen Ducey, via Getty Images; Ethan Miller, via Getty ImagesBy Lisa FriedmanIt’s official: The 2020 Democratic presidential field is now awash with climate candidates.Over the weekend, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington announced that he would run, declaring himself the “only candidate who will make defeating climate change our nation’s No. 1 priority.”In fact, every other Democratic presidential candidate has underlined his or her commitment to curbing planet-warming emissions — making the 2020 election much different from four years ago, when climate change was rarely mentioned.“For far too long, climate change didn’t get nearly the attention that it deserved, either on the campaign trail or off, and that clearly has changed in a major way,” said Tiernan Sittenfeld, senior vice president for government affairs at the League of Conservation Voters.In addition to Governor Inslee, Senators Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Amy Klobuchar, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren have all identified climate change as a top campaign issue, as has John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado. To varying degrees they have all also expressed support for the Green New Deal, a nonbinding congressional resolution that calls for a 10-year mobilization to dramatically reduce the burning of fossil fuels in the United States.Some political scientists have suggested that extreme weather has made the issue of climate change more immediate for voters. Others say that President Trump’s denial of climate science has actually highlighted the problem. And the Green New Deal and one of its main sponsors, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have sparked new enthusiasm among Democratic voters.Thomas J. Pyle, the president of the Institute for Energy Research, a think tank that supports fossil fuels, said that, with so many Democratic candidates talking about climate, it would be harder for a candidate like Governor Inslee to stand out.“If he ran in the last go-round he could probably distinguish himself as Mr. Green Jeans, but he’s just going to be one more voice in the choir promoting these extreme ideas,” Mr. Pyle said.One thing that’s been missing from the early campaign discourse, however, is what the candidates would actually do. For all the talk of a Green New Deal, there has been little support for its main policy prescription: a price on carbon.Robert Shrum, a professor of politics at the University of Southern California and a longtime adviser to Democratic candidates, said he was not concerned by the lack of specifics at this point.“There will be a lot of push in the Democratic primaries to pin people down on specific positions, but right now it’s early days,” Mr. Shrum said. “What’s clear is that the climate issue really matters.”One thing you can do: Try living a plastic-free lifeImageCreditTyler VarsellBy Eduardo GarciaWhen it comes to leading a sustainable lifestyle, I think I’m doing an O.K. job. But I have to admit that I waste a lot of plastic.I just took a quick look around my kitchen and found about 20 food products in nonrecyclable plastic packaging, including baked tofu, smoked salmon, goat cheese, spices, cereals and chocolate chip cookies.In a matter of days, all that plastic will end up in the trash can, and it will later be part of the roughly 35 million tons of plastic that waste disposal services collect every year in the United States. Though some of these plastics will be recycled and reused as something else, chances are that they’ll eventually wind up in a landfill or in the environment anyway.According to a United Nations estimate, by 2050, there will be roughly 12 billion metric tons of plastic litter in landfills or the environment worldwide, and it will stay there for hundreds of years because plastics decompose so slowly.Since most food products and toiletries come in disposable plastic packaging, is it possible to avoid using plastic in this way?Sophie Bortolussi, a dancer and choreographer in New York City, has been trying to do just that for about a year — “for the common good,” she said.Finding staples like bread, yogurt, coffee and pasta in reusable or biodegradable packaging was easy, but nowadays she very rarely buys sparkling water, olives, berries and cookies.She shops in food co-ops, farmers’ markets and old-school grocery stores that sell products in bulk. “I’ve created new habits around my plastic-free lifestyle by learning what I can buy and where,” she said.She’s far from the only person trying to go “zero waste.” Many converts chronicle their waste-free lifestyles in blogs and YouTube videos, and some pioneers, like Lauren Singer, have started businesses that sell package-free products.Sabrina Katz, 24, says she was once a “shopaholic,” but in college she came across Ms. Singer’s blog Trash Is For Tossers, which inspired her to go plastic-free.It wasn’t easy — she had to give up chips, many tofu products, granola bars and Oreos. But three and a half years later, she still buys most of her groceries at stores that sell in bulk and takes them home in Mason jars.“The foods that I find in bulk are really healthy foods — things like beans, whole grains, oats, pasta and fresh fruits and vegetables,” she said. “That means that I cook most of what I eat, which is a blessing and a curse.”Like Ms. Bortolussi and Ms. Katz, I want to see if I can reduce the amount of plastic I waste. Over the next week, I’ll adopt a lifestyle free of plastic packaging. I think it will be “a blessing and a curse.”Next week, I’ll let you know how the experiment went. In the meantime, we’d love to hear from you. Do you have tips on avoiding plastic packaging or plastics in other parts of your life? Let us know at climateteam@nytimes.com.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times.John Schwartz is part of the climate team. Since joining The Times in 2000, he has covered science, law, technology, the space program and more, and has written for almost every section.
@jswatz • Facebook Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.
@LFFriedman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A3 of the New York edition with the headline: Here to Help; One Thing You Can Do to Counteract Climate Change. 

Medicare for All Would Abolish Private Insurance. ‘There’s No Precedent in American History.’ - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexHealthSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperHealth|Medicare for All Would Abolish Private Insurance. ‘There’s No Precedent in American History.’AdvertisementSupported byMedicare for All Would Abolish Private Insurance. ‘There’s No Precedent in American History.’ Unlike Obamacare, emerging plans would sweep away the private health insurance system. What would that mean for the companies’ workers, the stock market and the cost of care? ImageBy Reed Abelson and Margot Sanger-KatzMarch 23, 2019At the heart of the “Medicare for all” proposals championed by Senator Bernie Sanders and many Democrats is a revolutionary idea: Abolish private health insurance. Proponents want to sweep away our complex, confusing, profit-driven mess of a health care system and start fresh with a single government-run insurer that would cover everyone.But doing away with an entire industry would also be profoundly disruptive. The private health insurance business employs at least a half a million people, covers about 250 million Americans, and generates roughly a trillion dollars in revenues. Its companies’ stocks are a staple of the mutual funds that make up millions of Americans’ retirement savings. Such a change would shake the entire health care system, which makes up a fifth of the United States economy, as hospitals, doctors, nursing homes and pharmaceutical companies would have to adapt to a new set of rules. Most Americans would have a new insurer — the federal government — and many would find the health insurance stocks in their retirement portfolios much less valuable.“We’re talking about changing flows of money on just a huge scale,” said Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton University and author of “The Social Transformation of American Medicine: The Rise of a Sovereign Profession and the Making of a Vast Industry.” “There’s no precedent in American history that compares to this,” he said. Economists have begun wrestling with basic questions about what this sort of change would mean and disagreeing over whether it would cost more or less than the country’s current health care system. No one has examined the full economic impact of such plans on jobs, wages, investors, doctors and hospitals — or the health insurance companies themselves. Such an undertaking would be difficult, given the vagueness of key parts of the proposals being discussed and the wide-ranging possible effects.There are few international analogues to the Medicare for all proposals, but Canada, which provides similar doctor and hospital benefits for its residents, probably comes closest. Even there, people buy private insurance for benefits that are not covered by the government program, like prescription drugs and dental care. Most other countries with single-payer systems allow a more expansive, competing role for private coverage. In Britain, for example, everyone is covered by a public system, but people can pay extra for insurance that gives them access to private doctors. Most countries in Europe don’t have single-payer systems, but instead allow private insurance companies to compete under extremely tight regulations.ImageSenator Bernie Sanders of Vermont was joined by Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York to announce a Medicare for All bill in September 2017.CreditAndrew Harnik/Associated PressLegislators writing the bills acknowledge that people in the health insurance industry would lose their jobs. Proposals in the House and Senate would set aside large funds to help cushion the blow to displaced workers, offering them training, benefits, and income supports. The health insurance industry is now composed of a mix of for-profit and nonprofit companies of various sizes. About 155 million Americans get private health coverage through an employer, but the reach of the industry extends into publicly funded insurance programs. A third of Americans enrolled in Medicare, which insures older and disabled people, and four-fifths of those in Medicaid, which covers the poor and disabled, now get their benefits from a private insurer. Simply talk of Medicare for all makes investors jittery. Shares of the large publicly held insurance companies, including Cigna, Humana and UnitedHealth, fell when Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, introduced her bill in late February, but have largely rebounded. The effective takeover of the health insurance industry in the United States would mean a huge hit to the companies’ stocks, although the companies, which have additional lines of business, would most likely survive. While the bills would give relief to insurance industry workers, they would provide no such compensation for investors. Not surprisingly, the insurance industry and many other health care industries vociferously oppose these plans and plan to spend heavily in fighting them.Many supporters of this approach see elimination of private insurance as a key feature, not a bug, meant to improve the program’s efficiency and equity by streamlining the health care system and weakening profit motives. With a single insurer covering every patient, hospitals and doctors could spend less time and money complying with differing policies, negotiating contracts, and filing forms to get paid. “It’s worth it,” said Adam Gaffney, the president of Physicians for a National Health Program, which supports single-payer health care and helped design
Ms. Jayapal’s bill. “Because we are not going to get to true universal health care without the greater efficiency of a single-payer system.”This idea — once at the edge of Democratic politics — has moved to the mainstream of the debate among the party’s numerous presidential contenders. Mr. Sanders, independent of Vermont, ran on the idea in his 2016 campaign, and now five 2020 Democratic aspirants have co-sponsored one of the two Medicare-for-all bills. Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California, and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts co-sponsored Mr. Sanders’s bill in the last Congress. Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii is a co-sponsor on this year’s House Medicare for All Act.The concept, in broad strokes, appeals to many Democratic voters. But overall support diminishes by a third or more when people are told that the plan would involve eliminating private insurance, raising taxes, or requiring waits to obtain medical care, according to surveys from the Kaiser Family Foundation.And the approach is a big departure from the Democrats’ strategy in 2010, when Congress passed the Affordable Care Act. That law expanded coverage, but did so largely using private insurance carriers. It set up marketplaces for Americans who didn’t have coverage through work to buy insurance, usually with federal subsidies, and broadened access to the Medicaid program for the poor. Obamacare was designed to build on the current system, patching its holes while minimizing disruption and avoiding the fierce opposition from industry that helped sink earlier attempts to change the health care system. But 107 Democratic House members are now co-sponsoring a Medicare for all bill written by Ms. Jayapal. Mr. Sanders, whose update of his bill is expected in the next few weeks, argues that only a single-payer approach would resolve problems he sees as inherent in private insurance. Both proposals are clear that a single, government-run insurer would replace the private sector, but they are less detailed about exactly how the government program would pay for medical care.Their plans would include nearly every doctor and hospital in the United States and provide generous benefits, including dental care and hearing aids, and would not require patients to pay any out-of-pocket cost to see a doctor. The federal government, of course, would have to cover those benefits, and would need to raise taxes to pay for them.Gerald Friedman, a labor economist at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, who was close to Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign, estimated then that it could reduce the nation’s health care spending by $6 trillion over a decade, while the left-leaning Urban Institute said it might increase the overall bill by nearly $7 trillion. Both Mr. Sanders and Ms. Jayapal said the switch to a government insurer would mean no loss in access to health care that private insurance provides. “There is a reason why the United States is the only major country on earth that allows private insurance companies to profit off of health care,” Mr. Sanders said in an interview. “The function of private health insurance is not to provide quality care to all, it is to make as much money as possible for the private insurance companies, working with the drug companies.”There are sharp disagreements among Democrats in Congress over whether Medicare for all or a more incremental approach is best — and presidential candidates co-sponsoring Mr. Sanders’s bill also support other, less sweeping measures. ImageThe Medicare for All bill written by Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington currently has 108 Democratic co-sponsors.CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesMs. Harris, asked directly about getting rid of private health insurance during a CNN forum in January, answered, “Let’s eliminate all that. Let’s move on.” But after her comments were characterized as extreme, her campaign quickly clarified that, while she continued to endorse the Sanders plan, she would also support more incremental expansions of health coverage. During her CNN forum last week, Ms. Warren said she was open to various ways to get to universal coverage. “When we talk about Medicare for all, there are a lot of different pathways,” she said. “What we’re all looking for is the lowest cost way to make sure that everybody gets covered.”Dr. David Blumenthal, a former Obama administration official who is now chief executive of the Commonwealth Fund, a nonprofit that funds health care research, voiced concern about the prospects for the most transformative approach. “I do think it’s an uphill battle to take things away from people in the name of giving them something better,” he said.Believers in markets argue that consumer choice and competition among private health plans improve the quality of care. Others laud private industry’s relative nimbleness compared with Medicare, which can be bureaucratic and prone to political influence.“Private plans have been able to evolve and test new models more quickly,” said Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president at NORC, a research organization at the University of Chicago. “The political process slows things down.” In a Medicare-for-all world, private insurers might evolve into contractors for the big government system. They already perform various functions for Medicare, including helping the program manage paying its bills. The industry could retain that role, or take on new responsibilities. “The government would have to build out infrastructure if they were to shut down all the private insurance companies,” said Mark Bertolini, the former chief executive of Aetna, now part of CVS Health. “It’s not that simple pulling all that apart.”RelatedOpinion | Paul KrugmanDon’t Make Health Care a Purity TestMarch 21, 2019Build Your Own ‘Medicare for All’ Plan. Beware: There Are Tough Choices.Feb. 21, 2019Opinion | David Brooks‘Medicare for All’: The Impossible DreamMarch 4, 2019[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Correction: March 23, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated the state Senator Cory Booker represents. It is New Jersey, not California. It also misstated the location of Representative Tulsi Gabbard's congressional district. It is in Hawaii, not New York.Reed Abelson covers the business of health care, focusing on health insurance and how financial incentives affect the delivery of medical care. She has been a reporter for The Times since 1995.
@ReedAbelson Margot Sanger-Katz is a domestic correspondent and writes about health care for The Upshot. She was previously a reporter at National Journal and The Concord Monitor and an editor at Legal Affairs and the Yale Alumni Magazine.
@sangerkatz • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Idea Would End Private Insurers, But Then What?. 

Medicare for All Is Divisive (in the Democratic Party) - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Medicare for All Is Divisive (in the Democratic Party)AdvertisementSupported byMedicare for All Is Divisive (in the Democratic Party)ImageMore than 100 Democrats — and at least four of the party’s presidential candidates — have endorsed “Medicare for all,” a new phrase for the old concept of a single-payer system.CreditCreditTom Brenner/The New York TimesBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert PearMarch 18, 2019WASHINGTON — No issue animated the Democrats’ 2018 congressional campaigns like health care and the promises to expand access to insurance and to lower costs. But as House Democrats sit down to draft their vision of governance in the coming weeks, lawmakers find themselves badly divided on the issue that delivered their majority.Centrists from swing districts, with the tacit support of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, favor incremental moves to shore up the Affordable Care Act and to lower the out-of-pocket costs of prescription drugs and medical care. They are pushing a variety of measures, such as shutting down cheap, short-term insurance plans that do not cover pre-existing medical conditions and allowing people to buy into Medicare at age 50 or 55.“We have very practical solutions that we can implement immediately,” said Representative Kim Schrier, Democrat of Washington, who is also a pediatrician. “We don’t have the luxury of time right now to wait for a full overhaul of our health care system.”But they are butting up against an aggressive and expanding group of more than 100 outspoken Democrats — as well as at least four of the party’s presidential candidates — who want to do just that, upend the whole system with a single government insurance plan for all Americans — the old concept of single payer, now called Medicare for all.“I reject the idea that single payer is impossible,” said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York.The fight will play out in the coming weeks as the new House majority assembles its first budget, a policy document that will not hold the force of law but will carry significant political weight, revealing Democrats’ intentions not only on health care but on taxation, climate change, Social Security and other hot-button issues as well. But more than any other subject, Democrats’ achievements or failures on health care may well define them as they try to defend their fragile majority next year.“Health care was on the ballot,” Ms. Pelosi declared in November, “and health care won.”The idea of Medicare for all is immensely contentious. It would greatly expand the federal role in health care. Critics say it would require a big increase in federal spending, and proponents have not said how they would pay for it. Some versions of Medicare for all could wipe out much of the health insurance industry and replace employer-sponsored health plans that now cover more than 155 million Americans. Supporters say the proposal would guarantee universal coverage and put health care on a budget, reducing what consumers and employers spend. But insurance companies, along with many hospitals and doctors, are waging a vigorous campaign against it, believing that it would reduce the payments they receive for providing care.Image“Social Security didn’t pass overnight. Medicare didn’t pass overnight,” said Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, who is a proponent of Medicare for all.CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesMs. Pelosi cannot afford to put moderate freshmen in Trump-friendly districts on the spot by putting Medicare for all up to a vote.“Most people receive health care from their employer,” said Representative Scott Peters, Democrat of California and a vice chairman for the New Democrat Coalition, a centrist group. “They do not want to replace it with an untested government system.”But that view is being challenged from some surprising corners of the party. Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and no one’s idea of an upstart firebrand, is now a champion of the Medicare for All Act. She said the government was already delivering health care to significant areas of the population — the elderly, the poor, service members, children and veterans.“We’ve got Medicare, we’ve got Children’s Health Insurance, and now it’s time for everybody,” said Ms. Dingell, whose husband, John, and his father before him, pressed for universal health care when they served in Congress. Before her husband died last month, she said, he told her to “bring it over the finish line.”The debate reflects how much the political climate around health care has changed since passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. Former President Barack Obama had promoted the idea of a public option — a government-run health program to compete with private insurance on a federally run insurance marketplace — but moderate Democrats balked, and it was not included in the final law.Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, almost single-handedly put the idea of Medicare for all on the agenda during his 2016 presidential campaign. Since then, the concept has become a kind of litmus test for liberals. Republicans’ dismissal of it as socialism has only emboldened the new wave of liberal freshman Democrats in the House.Backers of Medicare for all say that, if framed correctly around saving health care costs, it can appeal to voters in more moderate districts.ImageSenator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, almost single-handedly put Medicare for all on the agenda during his 2016 presidential campaign.CreditErin Schaff/The New York Times“Progressives have done a very good job making the moral case for Medicare for all,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California. “What we now need to do is make the economic case.”But with Republicans in charge of the White House and the Senate, the centrists argue that Congress needs to start with more incremental initiatives that could be slipped into larger bills, such as restoring money to enroll people in health plans on the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges. Other bills have bipartisan support; a measure drafted by Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, would create state-based reinsurance programs to help pay large health insurance claims, thus lowering premiums on the act’s exchanges.“After years of damage done to the A.C.A. from past Republican Congresses and the administration, we must start by reversing the sabotage,” leaders of the New Democrat Coalition wrote in a letter to the chairmen of three House committees responsible for health legislation.Ms. Pelosi has publicly stayed out of the fight, but with hearings on Medicare for all and other proposals scheduled in the coming weeks, that stance may not be sustainable. People close to her say she has serious reservations about the single-payer bill and believes the nation can achieve the goal of universal coverage at a more manageable cost by building on the framework of the Affordable Care Act, which she worked tirelessly to secure in 2010.Polls show the idea of a government-sponsored plan is broadly popular; the Kaiser Family Foundation, which tracks attitudes on health care, reported in January that 56 percent of respondents were somewhat or strongly in favor of a plan such as Medicare for all, in which all Americans would get their health care from the government. Even more — roughly three-fourths — were somewhat or strongly in favor of allowing people to buy into various government health plans.When respondents were asked what they wanted Congress to work on, they prioritized keeping protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions and lowering prescription drug costs ahead of enforcing Medicare for all. And the polls show support for Medicare for all falls off when people are asked or told about details of the plans, including possible tax increases to pay for it.Even so, Adam Green, a founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, a liberal advocacy group, said that support for Medicare for all had become “a mainstream position” among Democrats.ImageFor Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who must bring her fractious caucus together, the Medicare for all debate is politically perilous.CreditErin Schaff/The New York Times“I don’t think the split is as much between progressives and more conservative Democrats,” Mr. Green said. “I actually think the bigger split is between Democrats who just ran and had competitive races in 2018 and a bunch of old-timers who didn’t experience the dynamic of 2018 and are still operating in yesteryear, where Medicare for all was seen as more of a fringe position.”Many Democrats focused their election campaigns around protecting people with pre-existing conditions, and they want to move quickly to votes on proposals to do that — in part to test Republicans who made similar pledges during their campaigns. The full House has yet to vote on legislation on pre-existing conditions, though in the first 10 days of the new Congress, it voted twice to intervene in a lawsuit that threatens to eliminate the Affordable Care Act’s protections for people with such conditions.The three House committees with jurisdiction over health care — Energy and Commerce; Ways and Means; and Oversight and Reform — have channeled their energies into numerous hearings on how to lower prescription drug costs, how to expand coverage and protect people with pre-existing conditions and how to override actions by the Trump administration.Legislation is coming. Democrats are considering restricting the sales of short-term insurance policies, approved by the Trump administration, that do not have to comply with the Affordable Care Act, which means they do not have to provide essential health benefits and can discriminate against those with pre-existing conditions. Democrats are also looking for ways to cooperate with Republicans on proposals to lower prescription drug prices and to outlaw tactics used by brand-name companies to delay competition from generics.Hearings on Medicare for all will begin as early as April, according to Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, who is leading the push for the Medicare for All Act.Under the bill sponsored by Ms. Jayapal and Ms. Dingell, the secretary of health and human services would establish a “national health budget,” specifying the total amount to be spent each year, and a national fee schedule for health care providers. Republicans have recently been demanding hearings on it, in the belief that they can score political points by showing that the proposal would be immensely expensive and disruptive.Ms. Dingell said she intended to travel the country to push for the proposal. For her, it is carrying on a family legacy. Her husband’s father, John Dingell Sr., introduced the first universal health care bill in 1943 when he served in Congress; when the younger John Dingell was elected in 1955, he took up the cause and presided 10 years later when Congress passed the law enacting Medicare. A self-described pragmatist, Ms. Dingell acknowledged that the current bill may be only the beginning of a longer conversation.“Social Security didn’t pass overnight,” she said. “Medicare didn’t pass overnight.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Democrats Split
Over Health Care
At a Key Moment. 

N.Y.C. Special Election: 7 Factors That Will Help Decide the Public Advocate Race - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexNew YorkSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperNew York|N.Y.C. Special Election: 7 Factors That Will Help Decide the Public Advocate RaceAdvertisementSupported byN.Y.C. Special Election: 7 Factors That Will Help Decide the Public Advocate RaceImageDawn Smalls, standing, is among the candidates running for New York City public advocate.CreditCreditHiroko Masuike/The New York TimesBy Jeffery C. MaysFeb. 24, 2019[Read more about the public advocate race in New York Today.]It is a special election the likes of which New York has never seen: 17 candidates vying to become the city’s public advocate, in a nonpartisan battle featuring past and present members of the state Legislature and City Council.It has been an expensive endeavor. The city’s Campaign Finance Board doled out $7.1 million in matching funds to candidates, and its Board of Elections expected to spend $11 million to $15 million to organize the election on Tuesday, which was made necessary after Letitia James vacated the public advocate job to become the state attorney general.Why all the trouble and interest, especially for a position that some say should be abolished?First, the public advocate is next in line to replace a mayor departing in midterm. Second, others, including Mayor Bill de Blasio, have used the office as a springboard to higher positions. The public advocate also serves as an ombudsman, fielding complaints from residents and examining how city agencies are functioning.Then again, all of the effort put forth by the candidates, the Campaign Finance Board and the Board of Elections is technically for the honor of serving 10 months: Another election will be held in November to fill out the final two years of Ms. James’s term. Primaries were scheduled for June.Unless the winner of next week’s election gets a margin large enough to scare off potential challengers, “we might see a lot of these same people stick around until June,” said Christina Greer, an associate professor of political science at Fordham University.Here are seven factors that could determine who will be the next public advocate — at least for the next 10 months.Turnout, turnout, turnout ImageWith no other elected office being contested, turnout for the race was expected to be low.CreditDemetrius Freeman for The New York TimesHow many people vote is a factor in any election, but it is especially important in this race, according to political scientists. Unlike in a regular citywide election, when contests for mayor or City Council would drive people to the polls, voters on Tuesday are likely to be interested in the office of public advocate.“It’s a really important election because we’ve seen where people have gone after serving in this office,” Ms. Greer said. “But it is an obscure office holding an election at an obscure time with a gaggle of candidates, some who are known and others who are unknown.”Bruce N. Gyory, an adjunct professor of political science at the University at Albany, estimated that based on city primaries with no races for mayor or governor, the turnout on Tuesday could range between 200,000 and 600,000 votes. And with 17 candidates, it seems possible that the winner could attract less than 20 percent of the vote.Major labor organizations that typically provide Election Day support have largely stayed out of the race.Leading candidates have qualified for matching funds and could have money for get-out-the-vote efforts across the city. But Steven Romalewski, director of the mapping service at the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York’s Graduate Center, said it was unclear how robust those efforts would be because of the nature of the election.“There’s a large number of candidates,” Mr. Romalewski said, “and it’s easier to rely on that group of people that really support you.”Location, location, location It’s fair to say that New Yorkers have seldom encountered a ballot like they will on Tuesday.Voters will receive a paper ballot with the candidates’ names listed in three horizontal rows. The Board of Elections, however, is using a so-called snake format, meaning that the seventh candidate, Rafael L. Espinal Jr., would seem to have a less desirable spot than the 12th candidate, A. Manny Alicandro. Mr. Espinal asked the Board of Elections to change the ballot order, but the commissioners declined. The snake format has been used in the past, and the commissioners said in declining the request that it would be unfair to candidates who aimed to get a certain position. (The names were listed in chronological order by when candidates handed in their ballot petitions.) The ballot layout sends a “subliminal message” about importance, Mr. Gyory said.The collapse of the Amazon dealMany of the major candidates voiced disapproval or apprehension of the now-failed plan for Amazon to build a headquarters in Long Island City, Queens. Some candidates, such as Ron Kim, an assemblyman from Queens, and Nomiki Konst, an activist, had voiced consistent opposition to the plan. Eric A. Ulrich, a councilman from Queens — one of two Republicans in the race — had voiced strong approval. Other candidates had called for the deal to be revised.Mr. Ulrich could win votes from New Yorkers angry at the loss of potential tax revenue and jobs. “When you are unique in a pack, it could have an impact,” Mr. Gyory said. “Ulrich needs the rest of the field muddled and divided.” So many of the Democrats questioned the plan that voters will have many choices if Amazon is what draws them to the polls. Party-line namesBecause this is a nonpartisan special election, candidates were required to pick party-line names, like Fix the M.T.A., No Amazon, Equality for All, Unite Immigrants and Livable City. By serving as a sort of shorthand, the names could help New Yorkers with their selection. “People may come in not knowing how to vote,” Ms. Greer said, and the party-line names “may serve to give additional information to voters about what your priorities are.”Opinions on Mayor de BlasioSeven candidates who participated in the second and final public advocate debate last week were asked if Mayor Bill de Blasio, who has been flirting with running for president, was qualified to do so. The candidates chuckled. Ms. Konst said the mayor was technically qualified. “Legally, yes. He’s over the age of 35,” she said. “I think he’s delusional,” Mr. Kim said. Dawn Smalls, a former lawyer in the Obama administration, added, “He would not be my candidate for president.”Their point was they believed that Mr. de Blasio was distracted from his duties here. “I think the mayor should focus on New York City,” Mr. Espinal, a councilman from Brooklyn, said.The public advocate candidates have also made a point of discussing how they would be a foil to the mayor and challenge him on issues such as lead contamination in New York City Housing Authority apartments.Political ambitionsImageJumaane D. Williams, left, and Michael A. Blake have said they would not run for mayor in 2021.CreditHolly Pickett for The New York TimesTechnically speaking, none of the candidates has owned up to any mayoral ambitions. The candidates Jumaane D. Williams and Michael A. Blake have said they would not run for mayor in 2021, and Mr. Espinal said he wanted to serve the remainder of Ms. James’s term and the next two terms available.Melissa Mark-Viverito, the former City Council speaker, said she was focused on the public advocate job, but would not rule out a mayoral run. Ms. Smalls said she had no plans to run for mayor ever.The public advocate position is largely seen as a steppingstone to higher office: Ms. James became the attorney general, and Mr. de Blasio became the mayor. Ms. Greer said that supporters of individual candidates would be happy to see the position used as a boost and that voters expect politicians to be ambitious.And many of the candidates are term-limited members of the City Council or state legislators looking to step into more prominent roles.“Voters may ask, do you want the job or do you need the job?” Ms. Greer said.Who has the strongest baseImageMelissa Mark-Viverito said New York should not be led by three white men.CreditBenjamin Norman for The New York TimesMs. Mark-Viverito has focused her candidacy on the empowerment of women, arguing that New York should not be led by three white men: Mr. de Blasio, City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer and Council Speaker Corey Johnson. But she has also focused on the fact that a Latino has never held citywide office.Mr. Kim said that he expects strong support from Asians, but that he was also cultivating people who were opposed to the Amazon deal.Mr. Ulrich was trying to rally Republicans to his corner, but was also seeking moderate, pro-business Democrats who supported the Amazon deal, and Orthodox Jewish voters. And Mr. Williams was looking to repeat the success he had in Brooklyn during his recent failed run for lieutenant governor — he received 440,000 votes in the borough. He has focused on criminal justice reform and other progressive issues.“The winner will be someone who consolidated their base and was able to build a bridge to a different constituency,” Mr. Gyory said. “The quirkiness of a February special election and the multiplicity of candidates,” he added, “has reduced this race to the equivalent of running the Kentucky Derby on a muddy track.”Learn more about the special electionWho Are the Candidates for Public Advocate on Tuesday?Jan. 21, 2019It’s New York’s Hottest Contest: The Race for Public Advocate (Really)Jan. 4, 2019A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: 7 Factors Could Affect Outcome of Election For Public Advocate. 

On Foreign Trips, Pence Steps Out of Trump’s Shadow but Always Stays on Message - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|On Foreign Trips, Pence Steps Out of Trump’s Shadow but Always Stays on MessageAdvertisementSupported byOn Foreign Trips, Pence Steps Out of Trump’s Shadow but Always Stays on MessageImageVice President Mike Pence and his wife, Karen, after landing in Munich this month.CreditCreditMatthias Schrader/Associated PressBy Katie RogersFeb. 24, 2019SHANNON, Ireland — When it came time to stretch his legs during a refueling stop in Ireland on his recent Europe trip, Vice President Mike Pence left his cabin suite at the front of Air Force Two dressed in a flight jacket with the vice-presidential seal.As he disembarked to stroll a few laps around the airport terminal like a Midwestern mall walker, his wife, Karen, made a beeline to an assortment of souvenirs in the duty-free shop.Back across the Atlantic, President Trump, Mr. Pence’s boss, was in the midst of firing off his early morning tweets, including one addressed to the Senate Intelligence Committee denying, once again, that there was any collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. The vice president, for his part, seemed worlds away, enjoying a brief stop with the second lady as if they were tourists on a long-planned vacation.Appearing together in Washington, Mr. Trump, a former reality show mogul, and Mr. Pence, an evangelical Christian, are a strikingly odd couple, with the vice president usually seen as a meek helpmate casting a cipher’s gaze in the president’s direction. But with at least 10 diplomatic trips to six continents under his belt, Mr. Pence appears to have mastered the art of stepping out of Mr. Trump’s shadow on his own terms. He avoids taking any perilous steps into the president’s limelight by staying relentlessly on message, whatever the diplomatic cost.Their contrasting styles will be on display again this week. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump will be engaging in a high-stakes, if not theatrical, summit meeting in Vietnam with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader and his occasional pen pal. That meeting comes with the added drama of Mr. Trump’s former fixer testifying to Congress on the same day.With Mr. Trump in the spotlight, Mr. Pence will be left to test his international clout against a conflict that turned deadly over recent attempts to deliver humanitarian aid to Venezuela, a country reeling from a collapsed economy and violent political turmoil. On Monday, Mr. Pence is scheduled to visit Bogotá, Colombia, to reinforce the Trump administration’s demands that Nicolás Maduro, the Venezuelan president, step down to clear the way for Juan Guaidó, the opposition leader who has the support of the White House.According to a senior administration official, Mr. Pence is prepared to meet with Mr. Guaidó and plans to announce “concrete steps” to put pressure on Mr. Maduro’s government. That could include fleshing out a new round of punishing economic sanctions, a move several administration officials hinted at over the weekend.This urgent situation in Latin America will present a thornier challenge to the vice president than his four-day trip this month to Poland and Germany, where he was sent to deliver earnest, eloquent entreaties in support of Israel and accuse Iran of trying to perpetrate another Holocaust.Despite the sharp language, it was a comparatively low-stakes trip. On the first leg, Mr. Pence dined on cod and posed for group pictures at an administration-organized summit meeting, which was ostensibly about Middle East peace but was geared heavily toward isolating Iran. He took it in stride when Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, was accidentally identified as the vice president during a luncheon.But Mr. Pence demonstrated little interest in other delicate relationships at play when he demanded that European allies exit the nuclear accord with Iran negotiated by the Obama administration and accused them of undermining American-led sanctions. Mr. Pence’s aggressive approach infuriated those who watched it happen, including Mr. Pompeo, the administration’s top diplomat.He stayed relentlessly on message even while fielding questions about his visit to the Auschwitz concentration camp from reporters aboard Air Force Two.“We just felt waves of emotion,” Mr. Pence said about his time there, allowing only a peek into his personal experience of the trip, which included laying roses in a gas chamber and reading from scripture. He then veered back into a screed against Iran, accusing the government of harboring “the same vile, anti-Semitic hatred that animated the Nazis in Europe,” and calling on “freedom loving” people to condemn the Iranian government.Mr. Pence’s demand that the allies leave the nuclear accord was all but ignored by the crowd at his next stop, the Munich Security Conference. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, publicly stuck with Iran and criticized the Trump administration in a speech moments before Mr. Pence took the stage to deliver his own.One of the only indicators that Mr. Pence noticed the chilly European reception came when he mentioned Mr. Trump.“I bring greetings from the 45th president of the United States of America: President Donald Trump,” Mr. Pence said. The reference that tends to draw raucous applause at “Make America Great Again” rallies just drew silence in Munich.The vice president’s allies say it is not his job to worry about how he might be judged for the message he is delivering on the world stage — even if it creates a mess diplomats need to clean up.“I don’t think it was as much about how he was received,” Marc Short, Mr. Pence’s incoming chief of staff, said. “He was effective in getting his message across.”This relatively low-key approach makes for a kind of comfortable stability as well as a whiff of rigidity on Mr. Pence’s trips.Mr. Pence does not drink — he gave it up in the past, Mr. Short said, for “lots of reasons,” so no alcohol is served onboard Air Force Two. Mr. Pence opts for coffee as he revises and tweaks his prepared remarks at all hours. Any reporters or West Wing staff members along for the ride have to make do.When they are in different places, according to aides, Mr. Pence and the president speak several times a day. Their conversations tend to remain private even among the vice president’s closest advisers.“You will never ever hear him talk about his conversations, his advice, their discussions, ever,” said Marc Lotter, Mr. Pence’s former spokesman. “The only thing we would hear is, ‘The president wants us to do this.’”This deferential style is one Mr. Pence has told people he admired in George Bush when he was Ronald Reagan’s vice president. Mr. Bush was so humble that he famously refused to let a helicopter deposit him on the South Lawn after Mr. Reagan was shot in a 1981 assassination attempt. “Only the president lands on the South Lawn,” Mr. Bush remarked at the time.And so, even on Mr. Pence’s European trip, Mr. Trump’s influence could hardly be missed. His in-flight entourage contained several Trump loyalists, including the president’s daughter Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, the architect of the administration’s nascent Middle East peace plan, who traveled alongside Mr. Pence for most of his stops.Keith Kellogg, a retired lieutenant general well liked by Mr. Trump, found his way aboard as Mr. Pence’s national security adviser. He landed in Pence World last year, after a previous stint as the president’s acting national security adviser — a role he assumed after Michael T. Flynn was dismissed for misinforming Mr. Pence about the nature of a conversation with Russia’s ambassador to the United States.Pence loyalists were also given a seat — and access to the P.A. system. Tom Rose, a former publisher of The Jerusalem Post and conservative talk show host turned senior adviser to the vice president, got on it after Mr. Pence visited Auschwitz.“Of all the friends we have, two truly stand above them all,” Mr. Rose said. “President Donald Trump and my beloved friend, a true Lion of Judah, Vice President Mike Pence.”Travelers aboard broke into applause, and the plane was cleared for takeoff.Mr. Pence’s mission on Monday is to put further pressure on Mr. Maduro, an embattled leader whose government the Trump administration has declared an ideological adversary of the United States. The decision to send a vice president into a volatile political situation in Latin America does not come without risky precedent: In 1958, Richard M. Nixon’s motorcade was attacked when Mr. Nixon, then the vice president, toured Caracas, Venezuela.Still, for Mr. Pence, Latin America is well-trodden territory: It is his fifth trip there as vice president. He has visited often enough to draw Mr. Maduro’s attention: Last summer, Mr. Maduro lashed out at Mr. Pence, calling him “sick and obsessive” and a “poisonous viper” when he learned the vice president was visiting the region.The insult will most likely not deter Mr. Pence from delivering the latest iteration of Mr. Trump’s message. As Mr. Short put it, “he gives a terrific speech.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: While Abroad, Pence Steps (Ever So Slightly) Out of Trump’s Shadow. 

U.S. Under Pressure to Cease Flights of Troubled Boeing Jet - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBusinessSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBusiness|U.S. Under Pressure to Cease Flights of Troubled Boeing JetAdvertisementSupported byU.S. Under Pressure to Cease Flights of Troubled Boeing JetImageAn American Airlines gate at La Guardia Airport on Tuesday. American and Southwest Airlines are the two United States carriers that fly the Boeing 737 Max 8, with 58 total.CreditCreditChang W. Lee/The New York TimesBy David Gelles, Thomas Kaplan, Kenneth P. Vogel and Natalie KitroeffMarch 12, 2019[Update: The United States has now grounded Boeing’s 737 Max aircraft, reversing an earlier decision.]With more countries grounding Boeing jets and with lawmakers, aviation workers and consumers calling on the United States to do the same, the head of the aerospace giant on Tuesday made a personal appeal to President Trump.Boeing’s chief executive, Dennis A. Muilenburg, called from Chicago and expressed to Mr. Trump his confidence in the safety of the 737 Max 8 jets, according to two people briefed on the conversation. Two of the planes flown by overseas carriers have crashed in recent months in similar accidents.The brief call had been in the works since Monday, but it came shortly after Mr. Trump raised concerns that the increasing use of technology in airplanes was compromising passenger safety. “Airplanes are becoming far too complex to fly,” he wrote on Twitter. “Pilots are no longer needed, but rather computer scientists from MIT.”From 8,600 Flights to Zero: Grounding the Boeing 737 Max 8China was the first major country to ground the jets. The U.S. was last.Soon after the conversation ended, Mr. Muilenburg received more bad news. The European Union suspended “all flight operations” of the Boeing 737 Max 8 model, a striking move by one of the industry’s important regulators. At the end of the day, the Federal Aviation Administration said that it was continuing with its review and that the planes could keep flying.Yet the decision in Europe means roughly two-thirds of the Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft in the world have been pulled from use in the two days since the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines flight that killed 157 people. The swift actions by authorities around the world were driven in part by concerns about a connection to a similar disaster involving a Max 8 in Indonesia last October, when a Lion Air flight plunged into the Java Sea shortly after takeoff, killing all 189 people aboard.By Tuesday afternoon, the United States was nearly alone among major countries still allowing the jets to fly.Elaine Chao, the transportation secretary, said regulators “will not hesitate to take immediate and appropriate action” if a safety issue arises.ImageMax 8 jets parked at Manchester Airport in England on Tuesday. The European Union suspended “all flight operations” of the airliner after the Ethiopian Airlines crash this week.CreditChristopher Furlong/Getty ImagesBoeing reiterated in a statement late Tuesday that it had “full confidence” in the 737 Max 8. It noted that the F.A.A. had taken no action and “based on the information currently available, we do not have any basis to issue new guidance to operators.”Two United States airlines fly the 737 Max 8 aircraft and both said they planned to keep flying. Southwest Airlines has 34 of the planes and American Airlines has 24. The airlines have said they have analyzed data from their thousands of flights with the jets and found no reason to ground them.“We don’t have any changes planned,” Southwest said in a statement. “We have full confidence in the aircraft,” American said.The growing pressure left Boeing in an increasingly unfamiliar position. The company, a major military contractor, has close ties with the American government, and the F.A.A. in particular.[Three generations of a Canadian family died in the Ethiopian plane crash.]Boeing is a major lobbying force in the nation’s capital. Its top government relations official is a veteran of the Clinton White House, and last year, the company employed more than a dozen lobbying firms to advocate for its interests and spent $15 million in total on lobbying, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.The company, through its political action committee, funnels millions of dollars into the campaign accounts of lawmakers from both political parties. A list of a year’s worth of political spending on Boeing’s website stretches on for 14 pages, listing campaign contributions to lawmakers ranging from a city councilman in South Carolina to Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who is now the House speaker.“Boeing is one of the 800-pound gorillas around here,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who has called for the Max 8 to be grounded. As an example of Boeing’s reach in the highest levels of government, Mr. Blumenthal noted that the acting defense secretary, Patrick M. Shanahan, is a former Boeing executive.[While some passengers balked, it was business as usual in the United States and Canada.]For decades, the F.A.A. has used a network of outside experts, known as F.A.A. designees, to certify that aircraft meet safety standards. In 2005, the regulator shifted its approach for how it delegated authority outside the agency, creating a new program through which aircraft manufacturers like Boeing could choose their own employees to be the designees and help certify their planes.ImagePresident Trump at a tax forum last March with Boeing’s chief executive, Dennis A. Muilenburg, right, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in St. Louis. Boeing’s relationship with Mr. Trump has not always been smooth.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesThe program is intended to help the F.A.A. stretch its limited resources, while also benefiting plane makers who are eager to avoid delays in the certification process.The regulator maintains offices inside Boeing’s factories, including those in Renton, Wash., and in Charleston, S.C. “I’ve raised this concern in the past, about people who go to work at the Boeing plant who work for the F.A.A.,” said Representative Peter A. DeFazio, Democrat of Oregon and the chairman of the House transportation committee. “How much scrutiny are they applying, and could they be influenced?”The F.A.A.’s top safety official, Ali Bahrami, has worked closely with Boeing during his career, directing the agency’s certification of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner and the 747-8 passenger and freighter models.[Read answers to frequently asked questions about Boeing’s 737 Max 8.]“It’s a very cozy relationship,” said Jim Hall, the former head of the National Transportation Safety Board. “The manufacturer essentially becomes both the manufacturer and the regulator, because of the lack of the ability of government to do the job.”At a congressional hearing in 2015, a Boeing executive described the arrangement as effectively having an “arm of the F.A.A. within the Boeing Company,” and said 1,000 employees were part of the program.The regulatory policy of allowing manufacturers to essentially sign off on the safety of their own products has drawn criticism in the past. In 2011, a report from the Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector General found that the “F.A.A. has significantly reduced its role in approving individuals who perform work on F.A.A.’s behalf by further delegating this approval to private companies.”Boeing’s relationship with Mr. Trump has not always been smooth, however. Shortly after becoming president-elect, Mr. Trump assailed Boeing for the estimated cost of its program to build new Air Force One planes, which provide mobile command centers for the president.The “costs are out of control, more than $4 billion. Cancel order!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter a month after winning the election, but before taking office. A couple of weeks later, Mr. Muilenburg visited Mr. Trump at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Fla., to try to smooth things over.ImageThe Boeing plant in Renton, Wash. Two flight attendant unions called on the United States to ground the Max 8, but the Federal Aviation Administration said it had “no basis to order grounding the aircraft.”CreditRuth Fremson/The New York Times“It was a terrific conversation,” Mr. Muilenburg told reporters after the meeting, explaining that he had given Mr. Trump “my personal commitment” that Boeing would build new Air Force One planes for less than the $4 billion estimate. Weeks after the conversation, Boeing donated $1 million to Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee. The company had donated the same amount to help finance President Barack Obama’s inauguration in 2013.As concerns about the airworthiness of the Boeing 737 Max 8 spread around the globe on Tuesday, pressure was building on the F.A.A. to take action. Boeing shares fell 6 percent on Tuesday, after falling 5 percent on Monday. Early on Wednesday in New Zealand, the country’s aviation regulator suspended 737 Max flights there.Two unions representing flight attendants called for the jets to be grounded. “The F.A.A. must restore public confidence by grounding the 737 Max until the required changes have been implemented and the public can be fully assured,” said Sara Nelson, president of the Association of Flight Attendants.Lori Bassani, the president of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, which represents flight attendants at American Airlines, called on the airline to “strongly consider grounding these planes until a thorough investigation can be performed.”In Washington, politicians on both sides of the aisle called for action. Senator Ted Cruz, the Texas Republican who is the chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Aviation and Space, said he wanted “to temporarily ground 737 Max aircraft until the F.A.A. confirms the safety of these aircraft.” He also said he planned to hold a hearing to investigate the crashes.Senators Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Mitt Romney, Republican of Utah, also called on the F.A.A. to ground the aircraft while the cause of the Ethiopian crash is investigated.“Serious questions have been raised about whether these planes were pressed into service without additional pilot training in order to save money,” Ms. Warren said. Mr. Romney, in a Twitter post, urged a grounding “out of an abundance of caution for the flying public.”In his phone call with the president, the Boeing chief, Mr. Muilenburg, outlined the company’s position since the crash. He also updated Mr. Trump on the status of the 737 Max models.It was unclear whether anything came of the call. The White House did not respond to questions about the conversation.In its statement, the F.A.A. said that it had “no basis to order grounding the aircraft.”Reporting was contributed by Jack Nicas, Zach Wichter, Keith Bradsher, Ian Austen, Amie Tsang, Christine Negroni, Russell Goldman, Mike Ives, Allison McCann, Jin Wu, Choe Sang-Hun, Melissa Eddy, Aurelien Breeden, Sophia Kishkovsky, Adeel Hassan and Daniel Victor. Ailin Tang contributed research. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Pressure on U.S. To Cease Flights Of Troubled Jet. 

From Screen to Scorn: For Jussie Smollett, a Life of Arts and Activism Is Upended - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InU.S.|From Screen to Scorn: For Jussie Smollett, a Life of Arts and Activism Is UpendedImageJussie Smollett lives above and just to the north of where he claimed he was attacked at North New Street and East North Water Street.From Screen to Scorn: For Jussie Smollett, a Life of Arts and Activism Is Upended Given the actor’s long history in show business and political causes, it is all the more baffling to friends that he would risk so much.Jussie Smollett lives above and just to the north of where he claimed he was attacked at North New Street and East North Water Street.CreditCreditSupported byBy Jack Healy, Michael Cooper and Serge F. KovaleskiPhotographs by Alyssa SchukarFeb. 23, 2019CHICAGO — Ever since he was a child actor growing up in a show-business family, Jussie Smollett’s life blended activism with the make-believe worlds of television and movies.As he got his early breaks in a television mini-series and Disney’s 1992 hockey comedy “The Mighty Ducks,” and did press junkets for a short-lived ABC sitcom starring him and his five siblings, Mr. Smollett was also steeped in causes like AIDS activism and ending apartheid. He spoke of his mother’s closeness with the Black Panthers and prominent civil-rights leaders, and how she had encouraged Mr. Smollett and his brothers and sisters to create art and live out their beliefs.But now, fantasy and politics have collided in a way that has upended everything Mr. Smollett worked for. He is facing prison time and widespread public scorn over accusations that he concocted and carried out a false attack with racist and anti-gay details, capitalizing on broader anxieties about hate crimes under President Trump.Given his long history in show business, it is all the more baffling to friends and associates that Mr. Smollett, who is black and openly gay, would risk so much on a story that seems to have crumbled under intense scrutiny by police investigators.ImageNear the Subway restaurant in Chicago that Jussie Smollett said he had visited before being attacked.The Chicago police say that Mr. Smollett had been upset over his salary and wanted to stir up publicity when he filed a police report saying that two masked men had beaten him and thrown a noose around his neck as he walked home at 2 a.m. on Jan. 29, in the wealthy Streeterville neighborhood of downtown Chicago.According to police and court records, Mr. Smollett staged the attack as if he were a director putting on his first play. He paid two brothers who had worked on “Empire” $3,500, asked them to buy ski masks and a noose to use as props and told them which epithets to hurl when they attacked him. The police say Mr. Smollett even scoped out neighborhood security cameras to ensure the assault would be recorded.Mr. Smollett’s lawyers say he is innocent, but his career now hangs in doubt after “Empire” executive producers wrote him off the season’s final two episodes, and his tale of hatred and racism has instead become a cultural brawl over deception and “fake news.”The Hollywood friends who rallied behind Mr. Smollett the loudest are now struggling with where to place their allegiance — with their outspoken friend Jussie, or with the Chicago Police Department, an agency long criticized for its treatment of black people. In this case, though, the police laid out an unusually expansive and detailed timeline that appears to undermine Mr. Smollett’s claims.ImageAlong North New Street close to where Mr. Smollett said he was attacked.“I stand with Jussie, under the principle that he is family to me, and he’s always stood for me,” said Ralph Harris, who starred with Mr. Smollett and Mr. Smollett’s five siblings on a short-lived 1994 ABC sitcom, “On Our Own,” about orphaned children trying to stay together by outwitting the authorities.“But I’m a realist, and I respect law, and I respect what I’ve been seeing and hearing as well of the investigation — although Chicago does have its reputation,” Mr. Harris added. “But what I say in that case is if this is something that he’s responsible for, I stand by him — because then we need to get him help.”Conservatives who had publicly doubted the story from the start seized on the criminal charges against Mr. Smollett as evidence that the news media and liberals would credulously run with any narrative that tarnished Mr. Trump and his supporters.Hate Crime Hoaxes Are Rare, but Can Be ‘Devastating’Feb. 22, 2019Democratic politicians and liberal supporters of Mr. Smollett who had called the assault a modern-day lynching and an example of the rise in hate crimes since Mr. Trump’s election are now grappling with feelings of shock, anger, confusion and shame. Activists worry that victims of hate crimes will now face greater skepticism, or might not report future crimes at all.“Jussie Smollett understood this moment, and understood the heightened sensitivity to hate, to racism, to homophobia, and sought to manipulate it to his own benefit,” said David Axelrod, who covered Chicago politics as a journalist long before becoming a top adviser to President Barack Obama.ImageWinter’s Jazz Club in the Streeterville neighborhood of Chicago, where Mr. Smollett said he was attacked.For Mr. Smollett, arts and activism were intertwined throughout his childhood.His parents met while campaigning for civil rights in the Bay Area of California, and his mother had worked with the founders of the Black Panthers and prominent civil-rights leaders, according to a New York Times interview with Mr. Smollett in 2016. Between child-acting gigs and press junkets that the six siblings did for their 1994 ABC sitcom, their mother, Janet Smollett, made sure the children played sports and read about figures like Malcolm X and Langston Hughes, she told The Los Angeles Times in 1994. (His family did not respond to phone or email messages.)“I know their mother, Janet, has always taught them to stand up for themselves, and for what they believe,” Mr. Harris said. “They seemed like they were beyond their years.”Mr. Smollett embraced social movements. He worked for Artists for a New South Africa. He served on the board of directors of the Black AIDS Institute, and grew outspoken as Black Lives Matter took shape. In 2017, Mr. Smollett released a politically charged single, “F.U.W.,” a sort of resistance anthem with a black-and-white video taking aim at the Trump administration and white male privilege.ImageA surveillance camera overlooking North New Street and East North Water Street in Chicago. Mr. Smollett said he was attacked at the southwest corner of the intersection.His breakout role was Jamal Lyon, a talented member of the “Empire” hip-hop dynasty who struggles to get his family to accept that he is gay.When Mr. Smollett learned that the show’s creator Lee Daniels was casting the role, he sent a direct message to Mr. Daniels saying that he sang, acted, danced and wrote music, Mr. Smollett told Entertainment Weekly. Mr. Smollett said he had promised Mr. Daniels that “I am Jamal Lyon in more ways than one.” He got an audition, and he got the part.Mr. Smollett reportedly earned between $65,000 and $100,000 per episode, and had not previously raised objections about his salary to Fox, which broadcasts the show, people familiar with the show have told The Times.But the Chicago police superintendent, Eddie T. Johnson, said that Mr. Smollett had been dissatisfied with the money he was making and decided to do something about it.On Jan. 25, Mr. Smollett sent a text message to a friend, Abimbola Osundairo, who had worked as a stand-in for the love interest of Mr. Smollett’s “Empire” character. Mr. Smollett had befriended and worked out with Mr. Osundairo, a bodybuilder and former college football player, and that morning, Mr. Smollett had a mission in mind, according to court documents.ImageThe corner where the attack was said to have taken place.“Might need your help on the low,” he texted. “You around to meet up and talk face to face?”As the two men drove around Chicago together, Mr. Smollett said he was dissatisfied with how the “Empire” studio had responded to a threatening letter he said he had received on Jan. 22 at the Chicago facility where the show films. The letter was laced with a powder — determined to be crushed ibuprofen — and said “Smollett Jussie you will die black,” followed by an anti-gay slur, according to prosecutors. It has been turned over to the F.B.I.Superintendent Johnson later said at a news conference that Mr. Smollett had actually sent the letter to himself as a way to get attention.According to prosecutors, Mr. Smollett told Mr. Osundairo that he wanted to stage an attack on himself and cast him and his older brother, Olabinjo, who had been an extra on “Empire.” The brothers are of Nigerian descent, but were born in the United States.The Osundairos — who go by Abel and Ola — were struggling financially on the outer edges of show business. They had each declared bankruptcy in September 2016 and had been weighed down by credit-card debt and student loans.The brothers lived together in a small apartment on a busy boulevard on Chicago’s North Side, and had been trying to develop business ventures that married physical fitness, entertainment and their religious faith. John King Johnson, a friend, described them as “inseparable.”“They have always had an acting dream and it seems like it has grown over the years,” said Devin Allen, another friend who played college football with the brothers at Quincy University in southwestern Illinois. Referring to Olabinjo, whom he was closer to, he said: “Nobody is perfect. Nobody has a spotless past. He was temporarily overcome at the time with whatever he was tempted with, like money.”After Mr. Smollett reported the attack, investigators painstakingly used security-camera footage and records from taxi cabs and a rideshare to identify the brothers and track their movements that freezing cold night. They were detained and questioned by the police, but have not been charged and are acting as cooperating witnesses in the case.Across Chicago, the whipsawing anger was still raw for observers who watched Mr. Smollett walk silently out of court this week and disappear into a dark-windowed SUV.“I’m disgusted,” said Ja’Mal Green, a community organizer on Chicago’s South Side, who offered prayers of support for Mr. Smollett on the day that news of the attack broke. “Those of us who wanted to give him the benefit of the doubt, who wanted to listen and support him, it pushes us up against the wall.”ImageMr. Smollett's apartment is just above the corner where he said he was attacked.Jack Healy and Serge F. Kovaleski reported from Chicago, and Michael Cooper from New York. Reporting was contributed by Monica Davey and Julie Bosman from Chicago and Sopan Deb and John Koblin from New York. Susan Beachy contributed research.Jack Healy is a Colorado-based national correspondent who focuses on rural places and life outside America's “City Limits” signs. He has worked in Iraq and Afghanistan and is a graduate of the University of Missouri’s journalism school.
@jackhealynyt • Facebook Michael Cooper covers classical music and dance. He was previously a national correspondent; a political reporter covering presidential campaigns; and a metro reporter covering the police, City Hall and Albany.
@coopnytimes • Facebook Serge Kovaleski is an investigative reporter on the National Desk. He joined The Times in 2006, and was part of the team awarded the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News for the coverage of the Eliot Spitzer prostitution scandal.
@sergenyt A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: For Actor, Story Of Attack Risks Life of Activism. 

Toxic ‘Forever Chemicals’ in Drinking Water Leave Military Families Reeling - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexU.S.SubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperU.S.|Toxic ‘Forever Chemicals’ in Drinking Water Leave Military Families ReelingAdvertisementSupported byToxic ‘Forever Chemicals’ in Drinking Water Leave Military Families ReelingImageA water tank in Fountain, Colo., where the drinking water system was one of at least 55 polluted by the military.CreditCreditRyan David Brown for The New York TimesBy Julie TurkewitzFeb. 22, 2019FOUNTAIN, Colo. — When Army Staff Sgt. Samuel Fortune returned from Iraq, his body battered by war, he assumed he’d be safe.Then the people around him began to get sick. His neighbors, all living near five military bases, complained of tumors, thyroid problems and debilitating fatigue. Soon, the Colorado health department announced an unusually high number of kidney cancers in the region. Then Mr. Fortune’s wife fell ill.The military, it turned out, had been leaching toxic chemicals into the water for decades.Mr. Fortune felt “stabbed in the back,” he said. “We give our lives and our bodies for our country, and our government does not live up to their end of the deal.”That was 2016. Since then, the Defense Department has admitted that it allowed a firefighting foam to slip into at least 55 drinking water systems at military bases around the globe, sometimes for generations. This exposed tens of thousands of Americans, possibly many more, to per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances, a group of man-made chemicals known as PFAS that have been linked to cancers, immune suppression and other serious health problems.[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]Though the presence of the chemicals has been known for years, an announcement last week from the Environmental Protection Agency for the first time promised regulatory action, a significant acknowledgment of the startling scope of the problem that drew outrage from veterans and others living in contaminated communities.Acting administrator Andrew Wheeler said that the agency would begin the process of potentially limiting the presence of two of the compounds in drinking water, calling this a “pivotal moment in the history of the agency.”The admission drew some praise, but many said that it was not enough and that millions of people would keep ingesting the substances while a regulatory process plods along. “It should have been called an inaction plan,” said Judith Enck, a former E.P.A. regional administrator appointed by President Barack Obama.ImageVolunteers distributed bottled water to residents of Security, Colo., in 2016.CreditMatthew Staver for The New York TimesWhile the military has used the chemicals extensively, it is far from the only entity to do so, and in recent years, companies like DuPont have come under fire for leaching PFAS into water systems.All told, 10 million people could be drinking water laced with high levels of PFAS, according to Patrick Breysse, a top official at the federal Centers for Disease Control. Mr. Breysse has called the presence of the chemicals “one of the most seminal public health challenges” of the coming decades.The residents of Fountain, a mountain-flanked suburb of Colorado Springs, were told of the contamination by local officials who had been required by the E.P.A. to test the water for the substances, a step toward possible regulation. Soon dozens of communities from New York to Washington State discovered their drinking water was also polluted with PFAS.Many people began demanding that state and military officials test their blood for the chemicals, hoping to learn the extent of their presence in their bodies.The military has started an expensive cleanup effort that has involved shifting entire municipalities to new water sources and assessing toxic plumes that continue to spread for miles.Maureen Sullivan, the military’s deputy assistant secretary for environment, said the government had moved “aggressively” to tackle the problem, assessing cleanup duties and looking for alternatives to the firefighting foam, a version of which the military still uses.“I’m proud of what the Department of Defense has done in the past two-plus years,” she said.But frustration persists. The military never alerted all of the people who drank polluted water, meaning some are still in the dark. When asked how many people were affected by contamination, Ms. Sullivan said she “couldn’t hazard a guess.”
WYOMING
Nebraska
Denver
utah
kansas
Colorado Springs
Fountain
Colorado
New Mexico
100 miles
By The New York Times“We’re tracking water sources,” she said, “not people.”Local and state governments have had to carve millions from their budgets to deal with the problem, much of which may never be paid back. In places like Oscoda, Mich., where the lake now froths with toxic foam, residents are fighting with defense officials over the extent to which the military must clean up the mess.“When I was in the Air Force, they preached all the time: ‘Do the right thing. Integrity first. Service before self. Excellence in all we do’,” said Aaron Weed, a 22-year veteran who is now Oscoda’s town supervisor. “This is not the Air Force that I was a part of,” he continued. “The side of the Air Force that I am seeing is just disgraceful.”Blood testing has emerged as a sticking point. Specifically, a growing movement of veterans and others, united in advocacy groups with names like Fountain Valley Clean Water Coalition and Need Our Water, are asking the military test their blood for the chemicals, hoping to bring results to their doctors or use them in lawsuits.Their requests have been denied, and the military says that too little is known about the substances to make the results useful. Instead, it will pay for the C.D.C. to start yearslong population-based health studies in some communities.“They don’t want to know,” said Cindi Ashbeck, 56, a veteran who worked out of Wurtsmith Air Force Base in Michigan. “It’s not being addressed, because you open that can of worms, and you’ve got an Agent Orange thing on your hands.”PFAS are a broad class of chemicals developed in the 1940s. Because they repel grease and water, they have been used across industries for decades, often to prevent stains. They are placed in a dizzying array of products: food packaging, nonstick pans, clothing, furniture. They are also used to extinguish fires where petroleum-based explosions pose a danger.But the chemicals move quickly through the earth and into water, where they persist indefinitely. Some scientists have deemed them “forever chemicals,” and over the last two decades, a growing body of research has shown that the compounds meant to help us are likely hurting us.Image“We give our lives and our bodies for our country, and our government does not live up to their end of the deal,” said Samuel Fortune, who served two tours in Iraq.The most comprehensive data, based on a study of 69,000 people living near in a West Virginia DuPont plant, say exposure is associated with kidney cancer, testicular cancer, thyroid disease, high cholesterol and ulcerative colitis, among other problems, while animal studies show delays in development.Mr. Fortune grew up in Sheridan, Wyo., where joining the Army was the way to avoid the coal mine or a job at Wal-Mart, he said.He enlisted in 1998, serving two tours in Iraq as a mechanic. On his final visit, while he was waiting on the airfield for his ride out of the country, enemy mortar threw him against a wall meant to fortify the area, damaging his back and tearing all the tendons in his shoulders. He had to be rebuilt, with metal. “Five rods, two plates, nine screws, 10 nails, 20 staples,” he said. “I make an X-ray glow.”The Army then stationed Mr. Fortune in Colorado Springs, home to five military bases, placing him, his wife, Bianca, and their children, Bryan and Sophia, in the center of a contamination zone.He learned about the contamination in 2016. The military said it had come from the Peterson Air Force Base nearby. His family had been drinking the water for a decade.Soon, Ms. Fortune was in and out of the hospital, and Mr. Fortune became increasingly concerned that the cause was the chemicals. His wife told doctors of a debilitating pain in her right abdomen, intense joint pain and exhaustion. Her blood cell counts rose and fell like yo-yos. Some doctors thought it was Lyme disease; others weren’t so sure.Like many around the country, Mr. Fortune has joined one of several lawsuits against the companies that made the firefighting foam, including 3M and Tyco Fire Products. Others, including the City of Newburgh, N.Y., are suing the military directly.ImageSteve Patterson, whose family members learned they had been drinking contaminated water for decades, has lost several of his relatives to cancer in recent years.CreditRyan David Brown for The New York TimesBut the lawyer in the Colorado case, David McDivitt, said he thought that would be too difficult because “it’s tough to sue the federal government.”For years, there were signs that the chemicals in the military’s firefighting foam were dangerous. Defense Department studies dating to the 1970s indicated that the substances were harmful to laboratory animals, according to an investigation by The Colorado Springs Gazette, and the Army Corps of Engineers told Fort Carson to stop using the foam in 1991, calling it “harmful to the environment.”In 2000, under pressure from the E.P.A., 3M phased out production of some of the compounds, announcing that they could “could potentially pose a risk to human health.” Five years later, the E.P.A. declared that another compound was “likely to be carcinogenic to humans.”But the military has said it continued to use firefighting foams containing the compounds because companies have continued to produce them and the E.P.A. doesn’t regulate them.Industry officials have said they are following E.P.A. rules, while the E.P.A. has said it is still exploring regulation.“You know the Shaggy song, ‘It wasn’t me’?’” said Mr. McDivitt. “It’s like that.”In Fountain, the Defense Department has installed short-term water filters and is building treatment plants meant to fix the problem in the long-term. This has won the praise of some local officials. “We’re pleased with where we’re at,” said Curtis Mitchell of the Fountain water district.Not everyone agrees.After news broke of the contamination in Fountain and nearby communities, the Colorado health department said that while the area had a higher-than-normal rate of several cancers, that might be explained by high rates of obesity and smoking in the region.Steve Patterson, 62, whose family had been drinking fouled water for decades, is skeptical of that explanation. A dozen of his relatives have died of cancer, some genetically related to him, some not.Mr. Fortune recently began asking the military to test his wife’s blood for the substances.When officials declined, Mr. Fortune persisted, he said, and medical staff called him aggressive. “I’m not aggressive, I’m angry,” he said. “If you’re being poisoned, you want to know what it is, what it’s doing to you, and what you can do to stop it.” Follow Julie Turkewitz on Twitter @julieturkewitz.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A10 of the New York edition with the headline: ‘Stabbed in the Back’: Polluted Water Pains Military Families. 

Modern Basketball: Meet the Two-Mom, Two-Coach, Three-Kid Family - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSportsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperSports|Modern Basketball: Meet the Two-Mom, Two-Coach, Three-Kid FamilyAdvertisementSupported byModern Basketball: Meet the Two-Mom, Two-Coach, Three-Kid Family Colleen and Lauren Mullen, who rose through the coaching ranks and married, have a girl and twin boys. For now, Colleen is on the sideline and Lauren is cheering and child-watching.ImageLauren and Colleen Mullen with their twins, Brennan and Callan.CreditCreditLaurel Golio for The New York TimesBy Kevin ArmstrongFeb. 18, 2019ALBANY — Lauren Mullen pulled her black hat low over her eyes, paid $10 for a ticket and entered Sefcu Arena just before tip-off recently. She sat in Section 150. There were 18 rows between her and any other fans. She trained her focus on the two head coaches.On the visiting bench sat the University of Massachusetts, Lowell coach, Tom Garrick, a former N.B.A. player. Last spring, Mullen, then the women’s basketball coach at New York University, interviewed for the position that Garrick now holds. It was the third time in four years that she had been a finalist for a Division I head-coaching job. Her résumé included a 103-58 record and five postseason berths with the Violets.On the home sideline stood Mullen’s wife, Colleen, the coach of SUNY Albany. Colleen got the job one month after Lauren lost out to Garrick. An associate coach at West Point for six years, Colleen reached the N.C.A.A. Division I tournament twice. When Albany hired Colleen, Lauren resigned from N.Y.U. to stay at home with their children: Maggie, 3, and their 1-year-old twins, Brennan and Callan.“When you think about it, if I had gotten the Lowell job, I would’ve been over there,” Lauren said, pointing to Garrick. And Colleen, she added, would have been with the children. “Crazy, just crazy,’’ she said.It is, though, the path they are taking as a same-sex coaching couple with three small children and all sorts of demands and challenges. Indeed, Colleen joined a small sorority when Albany hired her. Although the Supreme Court approved same-sex marriage three years ago and college campuses can be among the more progressive places in the United States, Colleen says she is one of only five women she knows of who are openly gay head coaches in college basketball. She recalled how Sue Johnson, her coach at the University of New Hampshire at the time who is now the athletic director at Concord Academy in Massachusetts, came out 16 years ago, when Colleen was a senior. At the time, Johnson’s longtime partner, Kelly, was pregnant, and Johnson informed the team of their relationship after a practice.It was the chaos familiar to a lot of dual-income households that led Lauren and Colleen to a crossroads last winter. After four years of matching basketball calendars to Colleen’s biological clock to plan births for the off-season, timing recruiting calls around nap schedules, and wrestling with nanny problems and a merry-go-round of fill-in babysitters, they needed a change. “We were at a breaking point,” Colleen said. “A lot of coming and going.”“Absolute insanity,” Lauren said. “To be frank, at the end of last year, it was like, ‘O.K., what are we going to do?’”Both 38, the Mullens knew one of them needed to get a Division I head coaching job so the other could afford to step back into a supporting role. A pact was made early on. They would not pursue the same jobs, though they had competed for employment once before. That occurred when they met, in 2007. At the time, Lauren was a graduate assistant at Lehigh. There was an opening for an assistant coaching position, and Lauren applied for the internal promotion. Colleen, then an assistant at Southern New Hampshire University, also applied. They possessed similar credentials. Colleen stood 5 feet 2 inches and had starred at the University of New Hampshire as a pass-first point guard. Lauren was 5-foot-4, and was a facilitator at Hofstra. Colleen, who is six months older, got the job. Soon after, they played one-on-one for the first and only time. Lauren beat Colleen. Any lingering tension turned to mutual interest. On opening day of practice that season, they went on their first date.“She didn’t hate me for that long,” Colleen said. “She got a master’s from Lehigh. She’s in good shape.”ImageColleen is in her first season coaching the University at Albany women's team.CreditLaurel Golio for The New York TimesImageThe University at Albany, in yellow, during their victory against the University of Massachusetts, Lowell.CreditLaurel Golio for The New York TimesImageLauren, who has put aside coaching, watching Colleen's team at Sefcu Arena. CreditLaurel Golio for The New York TimesEarly in their relationship, they visited Colleen’s family. While there, they realized they had played in the same Florida tournament when they were 13. Colleen found a photo that captured Lauren guarding her on an inbounds play.They kept their relationship quiet as they began to climb the coaching ladder, drawing interest from South Carolina to Connecticut. Once, while Colleen was at Long Island University and Lauren was at Sacred Heart in Connecticut, they were in the same conference. L.I.U. beat Sacred Heart both times they played.“I slept on the couch,” Colleen said. “It’s fine.”“She’s lying,” Lauren said. “She would have made me sleep on the couch. Takes her a little time to let the steam off.”Colleen went north to West Point to become an assistant coach in June 2011. Weeks later, President Obama ended the United States military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy, the 17-year-old law that banned openly gay men, lesbians and bisexuals from military service. Colleen then found herself in competition with Lauren once more, this time for a recruit. Her name was Kelsey Minato, from Huntington Beach, Calif. Minato was a prolific outside scorer and Lauren was the first to reach out to her. She and Colleen had sat side-by-side in the stands watching Minato at a tournament in Arizona, and Colleen encouraged Lauren to speak with Minato’s coach afterward. Lauren followed through. A few weeks later, Army realized it needed a guard, and Colleen asked Lauren whether she would mind if Army pursued Minato. Lauren welcomed the competition. Minato was unaware of the relationship between the recruiters, and narrowed her choices to Sacred Heart and Army. She eventually became the best player in Army history, scoring 49 points in one game, breaking records and having her No. 5 jersey retired.“I was going to ride that wave for a long time, have a nice halo around my head for finding her,” Colleen said.But it was Lauren who became a head coach first. That summer, she signed on to lead N.Y.U. While Colleen sold recruits on West Point’s structure, Lauren pitched West Fourth Street’s freedom. One day, Lauren announced that practice was canceled. In came the West Point women in camouflage gear for a boot camp.“My players were all like, ‘Oh, no!’” Lauren said. “They wanted no part.’’In any case, wins at both programs followed, along with a wedding in May 2014. “New experience for me,” said Dave Magarity, the head coach of the West Point women’s team. “There were a lot of cigars floating around.”ImageThe Mullens leaving the arena after the Albany victory.CreditLaurel Golio for The New York TimesThe Mullens were living in Ossining, N.Y. — 26 miles from West Point, 36 miles from Greenwich Village. And Colleen, known as The Mullenator at West Point, recalled that Magarity defended her sexual orientation. When a recruit’s parent asked which members of his staff were married, Magarity said, “Don’t ever ask that question again.”“Dave was like papa bear,” Colleen said.Last May, Albany, which has reached six of the last seven N.C.A.A. tournaments, hired Colleen as its head coach. After starting 1-9, the Great Danes have gone 10-5 and are tied for third place in the America East.As a head coach, Colleen, who has been openly gay since college, now finds herself calculating when to mention Lauren, who came out when she was in her mid-20s. “When I am talking to certain people, and I bring up my wife, there’s a second thought in my head,” Colleen said. “It’s like, ‘Should I just talk about my kids?’ It doesn’t feel right when you censor yourself.”Up in the stands, it has not taken long for Lauren to find her voice as a spectator. When the season schedule was announced, she cleared her calendar to be in attendance at Albany’s opener at the University of South Florida. She had not been able to make one of Colleen’s games in years. In the stands, Lauren described herself as “out of control.’’“I knew it, but I couldn’t help myself,’’ Lauren said. “I was like, I need to calm down, but then I’d say, ‘That’s a walk! They walked!’” She and Colleen bought a house in Bethlehem, N.Y., last August. On a recent night there, Maggie played with Disney princess stamps as Lauren cut chicken nuggets for the boys. A chalkboard featured a to-do list above a diagram of “Double Horns,” an offensive set.“We’re like a sociology experiment because Maggie wants gowns and she’d maybe seen her moms in like 10 dresses combined,” Lauren said. The boys, she added, had all girls toys to choose from but are indicating an interest in trucks.And Maggie is learning what comes with winning. After a victory over the University of Maryland Baltimore County, the Great Danes awaited Colleen in the home locker room. Maggie was hesitant to go inside, so Lauren let her know that she would be waiting in the hallway. After Maggie and Colleen entered, the door closed behind them. A roar could be heard as guard Kyara Frames lifted Colleen in the air, per their celebratory custom. Eleven seconds later, Maggie ran out crying.“Mom’s having fun,” Lauren told her. “The girls are having fun.”Number of Women Coaching in College Has Plummeted in Title IX EraMarch 30, 2017A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B7 of the New York edition with the headline: A Two-Mom, Two-Coach Family. 

They’re Rich and They’re Mad About Taxes (Too Low!) - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBusinessSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBusiness|They’re Rich and They’re Mad About Taxes (Too Low!)AdvertisementSupported byYour Taxes 2019They’re Rich and They’re Mad About Taxes (Too Low!)An affluent few are raging against a tax law that puts more money — a lot more — in their pockets. Friends call them ‘traitors to their class.’ImageCreditCreditDelcan & Company + Saad MoosajeeBy David GellesFeb. 12, 2019Stephen Prince was aboard the Silver Whisper, a luxury cruise ship docked in French Polynesia, sipping his morning coffee from sparkling china as he lamented a tax break that was about to save him millions of dollars.The founder of a private company that makes plastic gift cards, Mr. Prince is among the wealthy elite who stand to benefit enormously from the Trump tax cuts passed in 2017. He estimates that his tax bill this year will be $3 million less than it would have been absent the changes.Yet Mr. Prince, a Democrat from Nashville, is none too pleased about his windfall. He believes the Trump tax cuts are misguided and ultimately bad for the country, even as they pad his already robust bank account.“I’m pissed off about it,” said Mr. Prince, speaking via FaceTime during a four-month, around-the-world cruise with his wife.Mr. Prince occupies a peculiar spot on today’s highly charged ideological spectrum. A successful entrepreneur, he made a fortune with his company, National Business Products, and is now enjoying the fruits of his labor as he approaches retirement. Yet when Mr. Prince scrutinizes the laws that govern his payments to the Treasury Department, he sees an inequitable system that asks too little of him and his peers, and too much of those with not much to spare.Your Taxes 2019More news, answers and guidance for taxpayers.The 8 Most Common 2019 Tax Return Questions, Answered by ExpertsFeb. 13, 2019Filing Taxes on Your Phone? Insert Frustrated-Face Emoji HereFeb. 12, 2019Small Businesses Have a New Tax Break, but There Are Many ‘Ifs’Feb. 12, 2019Smaller Tax Refunds Surprise Those Expecting More ReliefFeb. 12, 2019“People like me are not all greedy,” he continued, turning his phone around to reveal dawn breaking over the South Pacific. “We have to show that we have some concern for the country, and that we’re willing to pay some taxes.”The sweeping reorganization of the tax code is affecting Americans unevenly. Corporations benefited tremendously. Many have reported higher profits and increased payments to shareholders. Some companies offered workers bonuses.But many lower- and middle-income earners will not see their tax bills fall by much, if at all. Instead, the vast majority of individuals who stand to gain from the tax cuts are business owners and those who earn substantial income through pass-through entities. That is, people like Mr. Prince.Most of those in line to benefit from the Trump tax cuts are not complaining. Plenty of business owners and investors cheered the changes as good for themselves and the economy.But Mr. Prince has found camaraderie among an ad hoc group of wealthy individuals known as the Patriotic Millionaires. Founded in 2010 by Morris Pearl, a former BlackRock executive, the loose-knit group advocates higher taxes on businesses and the wealthy. In recent years, they have met with legislators in Washington and various state capitals, testified before Congress and endorsed candidates who endorse higher taxes on the rich.“We’re very concerned about this huge inequality thing,” said Mr. Pearl. “And the tax cut was designed to make the rich richer.”Now retired, Mr. Pearl is frustrated that his income from investments is not taxed at a higher rate. “I don’t work at all, but I’m making more money than most people who do work, and I’m paying less taxes than they do,” he said. “It’s a pretty good deal if you can get it, but it’s not good for the country.”‘A Monstrosity’This is not the first time millionaires have voiced their enthusiasm for higher taxation. In 2011, President Obama introduced the so-called Buffett rule. Named after the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who has spoken out in favor of higher taxes for the rich, the tax would have applied a minimum rate of 30 percent on individuals earning more than $1 million a year.In an op-ed in The Times, Mr. Buffett lamented that his tax rate was lower than any of the other 20 people in his office, and called for changes to the tax code that would ask more of him and less of middle-class wage earners. “My friends and I have been coddled long enough by a billionaire-friendly Congress,” Mr. Buffett wrote. “It’s time for our government to get serious about shared sacrifice.”The Buffett rule was never enacted. And last year, Mr. Buffett, of all people, cheered the Trump tax cuts, calling them a “huge tailwind” for American companies.In recent weeks, the prospect of higher taxes on the rich has once again entered the national discourse. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez proposed a tax rate of 70 percent on income earned above $10 million. Senator Elizabeth Warren called for a 2 percent annual tax on a household’s assets above $50 million, and an additional 1 percent “billionaire surtax.”And while the Patriotic Millionaires broadly cheer such proposals (while refraining from endorsing either plan), many high-profile billionaires — even those with left-wing leanings — swiftly pushed back. Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who is considering running for president as a Democrat, called Ms. Warren’s idea “probably unconstitutional.” Former Starbucks Chief Executive Howard Schultz, who is considering running for president as an independent, called the policy proposal “ridiculous.”The swift pushback from Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Schultz was a reminder of just how far outside the mainstream the Patriotic Millionaires’ views are for the wealthy, even the liberal ones.Eric Schoenberg, another member of the group, estimates that the Trump tax cuts will save him tens of thousands of dollars this year, and millions in the years to come.“Our tax system is a monstrosity,” said Mr. Schoenberg, an investor who also teaches at Columbia University. “It’s terrible in ways that have been perpetually slanted toward the rich. And I say this as some one who has done quite well in life.”Mr. Schoenberg has emerged as one of the most outspoken members of the group, taking to the internet to break down his tax returns. Had the Trump tax cuts been in effect in 2016, he would have saved some $50,000 on his taxes that year, he said.“I’m not happy about this,” Mr. Schoenberg said. “The fact that this is putting money in my pocket is completely secondary. The whole thing is legislative malfeasance.”‘A traitor to my class’For those wealthy enough to be saving tens of thousands of dollars in taxes, or even millions, the sums are not particularly meaningful from a financial perspective. After all, they’re already awful rich.“I don’t look at it as if there’s now this extra pot of money,” said Mr. Pearl. “The pot of money is just now somewhat larger than it might otherwise have been.”To drive home his point, Mr. Pearl used an analogy Mr. Schultz might appreciate. “If the Starbucks guy gives you an extra cup of coffee, it’s not like you think, ‘Now I have an extra $3; what am I going to do with it?’” he said.But others in the group said they would be putting their tax savings to work. John Driscoll, the chief executive of CareCentrix, a health care company, has not done his taxes for 2018 but expects a windfall. With the extra money, Mr. Driscoll said he would double his support for progressive causes and politicians.“My family is going to give more money to fight issues of hunger, and we’re going to invest more in candidates who don’t put the income of wealthy people ahead of people who need help,” he said. “The unnecessary and fiscally imprudent reduction in the individual tax rate gives me more income to fight the imbalances.”Roberta Kaplan, a partner at Kaplan Hecker & Fink and a Patriotic Millionaire, recalled that when she was growing up, her father talked about being proud to pay his taxes. “He wasn’t looking for any way to lessen his tax burden,” she said. “It was his way of contributing to our country.”At first, Ms. Kaplan dismissed the sentiment as naïve. “I remember thinking he was sort of a sucker,” she said. “But I’ve come to appreciate how much wisdom there is in that. People in our country who have done well and who benefit from all the advantages of living in this economy have an obligation to support that system and make it better and fairer.”While the millionaires of the resistance may up their charitable giving, none said they would be making voluntary contributions to the government. (Which, yes, is a thing some people do.) Americans donated just $775,654.63 to help reduce the national debt last year, down from a high of $7.75 million in 2012.Mr. Prince, speaking from the Silver Whisper, said he had no plans to make voluntary contributions to the Treasury. “I don’t want to just give away my money to the government,” he said.Instead he plans to continue his quixotic quest to increase his own tax rate, even as it places him at odds with so many of his affluent peers.“The vast majority of my friends are wealthy, too, and they think I’m an idiot,” Mr. Prince said. “I get called a traitor to my class all the time.”Correction: Feb. 19, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated Senator Elizabeth Warren’s proposal for a new tax on wealthy Americans. The proposal would levy a 2 percent annual tax on a household’s assets above $50 million, not on all assets owned by a household with a net worth of $50 million or more.David Gelles is the Corner Office columnist and a business reporter. Follow him on LinkedIn and Twitter.
@dgelles A version of this article appears in print on , on Page BU4 of the New York edition with the headline: They’re Rich and They’re Mad
About Taxes: Too Low!. 

They’re Rich and They’re Mad About Taxes (Too Low!) - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBusinessSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBusiness|They’re Rich and They’re Mad About Taxes (Too Low!)AdvertisementSupported byYour Taxes 2019They’re Rich and They’re Mad About Taxes (Too Low!)An affluent few are raging against a tax law that puts more money — a lot more — in their pockets. Friends call them ‘traitors to their class.’ImageCreditCreditDelcan & Company + Saad MoosajeeBy David GellesFeb. 12, 2019Stephen Prince was aboard the Silver Whisper, a luxury cruise ship docked in French Polynesia, sipping his morning coffee from sparkling china as he lamented a tax break that was about to save him millions of dollars.The founder of a private company that makes plastic gift cards, Mr. Prince is among the wealthy elite who stand to benefit enormously from the Trump tax cuts passed in 2017. He estimates that his tax bill this year will be $3 million less than it would have been absent the changes.Yet Mr. Prince, a Democrat from Nashville, is none too pleased about his windfall. He believes the Trump tax cuts are misguided and ultimately bad for the country, even as they pad his already robust bank account.“I’m pissed off about it,” said Mr. Prince, speaking via FaceTime during a four-month, around-the-world cruise with his wife.Mr. Prince occupies a peculiar spot on today’s highly charged ideological spectrum. A successful entrepreneur, he made a fortune with his company, National Business Products, and is now enjoying the fruits of his labor as he approaches retirement. Yet when Mr. Prince scrutinizes the laws that govern his payments to the Treasury Department, he sees an inequitable system that asks too little of him and his peers, and too much of those with not much to spare.Your Taxes 2019More news, answers and guidance for taxpayers.The 8 Most Common 2019 Tax Return Questions, Answered by ExpertsFeb. 13, 2019Filing Taxes on Your Phone? Insert Frustrated-Face Emoji HereFeb. 12, 2019Small Businesses Have a New Tax Break, but There Are Many ‘Ifs’Feb. 12, 2019Smaller Tax Refunds Surprise Those Expecting More ReliefFeb. 12, 2019“People like me are not all greedy,” he continued, turning his phone around to reveal dawn breaking over the South Pacific. “We have to show that we have some concern for the country, and that we’re willing to pay some taxes.”The sweeping reorganization of the tax code is affecting Americans unevenly. Corporations benefited tremendously. Many have reported higher profits and increased payments to shareholders. Some companies offered workers bonuses.But many lower- and middle-income earners will not see their tax bills fall by much, if at all. Instead, the vast majority of individuals who stand to gain from the tax cuts are business owners and those who earn substantial income through pass-through entities. That is, people like Mr. Prince.Most of those in line to benefit from the Trump tax cuts are not complaining. Plenty of business owners and investors cheered the changes as good for themselves and the economy.But Mr. Prince has found camaraderie among an ad hoc group of wealthy individuals known as the Patriotic Millionaires. Founded in 2010 by Morris Pearl, a former BlackRock executive, the loose-knit group advocates higher taxes on businesses and the wealthy. In recent years, they have met with legislators in Washington and various state capitals, testified before Congress and endorsed candidates who endorse higher taxes on the rich.“We’re very concerned about this huge inequality thing,” said Mr. Pearl. “And the tax cut was designed to make the rich richer.”Now retired, Mr. Pearl is frustrated that his income from investments is not taxed at a higher rate. “I don’t work at all, but I’m making more money than most people who do work, and I’m paying less taxes than they do,” he said. “It’s a pretty good deal if you can get it, but it’s not good for the country.”‘A Monstrosity’This is not the first time millionaires have voiced their enthusiasm for higher taxation. In 2011, President Obama introduced the so-called Buffett rule. Named after the billionaire investor Warren Buffett, who has spoken out in favor of higher taxes for the rich, the tax would have applied a minimum rate of 30 percent on individuals earning more than $1 million a year.In an op-ed in The Times, Mr. Buffett lamented that his tax rate was lower than any of the other 20 people in his office, and called for changes to the tax code that would ask more of him and less of middle-class wage earners. “My friends and I have been coddled long enough by a billionaire-friendly Congress,” Mr. Buffett wrote. “It’s time for our government to get serious about shared sacrifice.”The Buffett rule was never enacted. And last year, Mr. Buffett, of all people, cheered the Trump tax cuts, calling them a “huge tailwind” for American companies.In recent weeks, the prospect of higher taxes on the rich has once again entered the national discourse. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez proposed a tax rate of 70 percent on income earned above $10 million. Senator Elizabeth Warren called for a 2 percent annual tax on a household’s assets above $50 million, and an additional 1 percent “billionaire surtax.”And while the Patriotic Millionaires broadly cheer such proposals (while refraining from endorsing either plan), many high-profile billionaires — even those with left-wing leanings — swiftly pushed back. Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who is considering running for president as a Democrat, called Ms. Warren’s idea “probably unconstitutional.” Former Starbucks Chief Executive Howard Schultz, who is considering running for president as an independent, called the policy proposal “ridiculous.”The swift pushback from Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Schultz was a reminder of just how far outside the mainstream the Patriotic Millionaires’ views are for the wealthy, even the liberal ones.Eric Schoenberg, another member of the group, estimates that the Trump tax cuts will save him tens of thousands of dollars this year, and millions in the years to come.“Our tax system is a monstrosity,” said Mr. Schoenberg, an investor who also teaches at Columbia University. “It’s terrible in ways that have been perpetually slanted toward the rich. And I say this as some one who has done quite well in life.”Mr. Schoenberg has emerged as one of the most outspoken members of the group, taking to the internet to break down his tax returns. Had the Trump tax cuts been in effect in 2016, he would have saved some $50,000 on his taxes that year, he said.“I’m not happy about this,” Mr. Schoenberg said. “The fact that this is putting money in my pocket is completely secondary. The whole thing is legislative malfeasance.”‘A traitor to my class’For those wealthy enough to be saving tens of thousands of dollars in taxes, or even millions, the sums are not particularly meaningful from a financial perspective. After all, they’re already awful rich.“I don’t look at it as if there’s now this extra pot of money,” said Mr. Pearl. “The pot of money is just now somewhat larger than it might otherwise have been.”To drive home his point, Mr. Pearl used an analogy Mr. Schultz might appreciate. “If the Starbucks guy gives you an extra cup of coffee, it’s not like you think, ‘Now I have an extra $3; what am I going to do with it?’” he said.But others in the group said they would be putting their tax savings to work. John Driscoll, the chief executive of CareCentrix, a health care company, has not done his taxes for 2018 but expects a windfall. With the extra money, Mr. Driscoll said he would double his support for progressive causes and politicians.“My family is going to give more money to fight issues of hunger, and we’re going to invest more in candidates who don’t put the income of wealthy people ahead of people who need help,” he said. “The unnecessary and fiscally imprudent reduction in the individual tax rate gives me more income to fight the imbalances.”Roberta Kaplan, a partner at Kaplan Hecker & Fink and a Patriotic Millionaire, recalled that when she was growing up, her father talked about being proud to pay his taxes. “He wasn’t looking for any way to lessen his tax burden,” she said. “It was his way of contributing to our country.”At first, Ms. Kaplan dismissed the sentiment as naïve. “I remember thinking he was sort of a sucker,” she said. “But I’ve come to appreciate how much wisdom there is in that. People in our country who have done well and who benefit from all the advantages of living in this economy have an obligation to support that system and make it better and fairer.”While the millionaires of the resistance may up their charitable giving, none said they would be making voluntary contributions to the government. (Which, yes, is a thing some people do.) Americans donated just $775,654.63 to help reduce the national debt last year, down from a high of $7.75 million in 2012.Mr. Prince, speaking from the Silver Whisper, said he had no plans to make voluntary contributions to the Treasury. “I don’t want to just give away my money to the government,” he said.Instead he plans to continue his quixotic quest to increase his own tax rate, even as it places him at odds with so many of his affluent peers.“The vast majority of my friends are wealthy, too, and they think I’m an idiot,” Mr. Prince said. “I get called a traitor to my class all the time.”Correction: Feb. 19, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated Senator Elizabeth Warren’s proposal for a new tax on wealthy Americans. The proposal would levy a 2 percent annual tax on a household’s assets above $50 million, not on all assets owned by a household with a net worth of $50 million or more.David Gelles is the Corner Office columnist and a business reporter. Follow him on LinkedIn and Twitter.
@dgelles A version of this article appears in print on , on Page BU4 of the New York edition with the headline: They’re Rich and They’re Mad
About Taxes: Too Low!. 

It’s Mueller’s Investigation. But Right Behind Him Is Andrew Goldstein. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|It’s Mueller’s Investigation. But Right Behind Him Is Andrew Goldstein.AdvertisementSupported byIt’s Mueller’s Investigation. But Right Behind Him Is Andrew Goldstein.ImageAndrew D. Goldstein is one of Robert Mueller’s lead prosecutors in the obstruction of justice investigation of the president.CreditCreditTom Brenner for The New York TimesBy Noah Weiland and Michael S. SchmidtFeb. 25, 2019WASHINGTON — The routine was always the same. President Trump’s lawyers would drive to heavily secured offices near the National Mall, surrender their cellphones, head into a windowless conference room and resume tense negotiations over whether the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, would interview Mr. Trump.But Mr. Mueller was not always there. Instead, the lawyers tangled with a team of prosecutors, including a little known but formidable adversary: Andrew D. Goldstein, 44, a former Time magazine reporter who is now a lead prosecutor for Mr. Mueller in the investigation into whether the president obstructed justice.Mr. Mueller is often portrayed as the omnipotent fact-gatherer, but it is Mr. Goldstein who has a much more involved, day-to-day role in one of the central lines of investigation.Mr. Goldstein, the lone prosecutor in Mr. Mueller’s office who came directly from a corruption unit at the Justice Department, has conducted every major interview of the president’s advisers. He questioned Donald F. McGahn II, Mr. Trump’s former White House counsel, and Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former fixer and lawyer, for dozens of hours. He signed Mr. Cohen’s plea agreement. He conducted grand jury questioning of associates of Roger J. Stone Jr., the former adviser to Mr. Trump who was indicted last month.And he was one of two prosecutors who relayed to the president’s lawyers dozens of questions about Mr. Trump’s behavior in office that Mr. Mueller wanted the president to answer under oath. The questions showed the Mueller team’s hand for the first time: extensive, detailed lines of inquiry that could imperil the presidency.“He knew the facts like I knew the facts,” John Dowd, Mr. Trump’s former lawyer, said of Mr. Goldstein.Over the past two years, Mr. Trump has waged a regular assault on prosecutors and other law enforcement officials investigating him, particularly on Mr. Mueller’s team. But mounting a high-level criminal case on obstruction is rare and complex, and even more difficult when the subject is a sitting president.Now that Mr. Mueller is expected to deliver his report in the coming weeks, Mr. Goldstein’s past as a prosecutor offers a glimpse into how he might be helping the special counsel make a final determination.ImageOver the past two years, President Trump has waged a regular assault on prosecutors and other law enforcement officials investigating him, particularly those on Mr. Mueller’s team.CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesInterviews with Mr. Goldstein’s colleagues and friends and an examination of his past work reveal someone profoundly at odds with the cowboylike image Mr. Trump has painted of Mr. Mueller’s team. He is one of the few in the group with a career outside the law — in addition to working for Time, Mr. Goldstein was a high school teacher — and is known for his nonconfrontational personality and cautious approach to prosecutions.Before Mr. Mueller hired him, Mr. Goldstein, the son of a former Republican United States attorney, led the corruption unit in the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan as the office made a highly unusual call to announce that it had declined to charge Mayor Bill de Blasio with a variety of crimes. The decision revealed how restrained high-level prosecutors often are in major political investigations.“Investigating and prosecuting public corruption offenses can only go so far,” Mr. Goldstein said in a rare speech around the time he joined the special counsel’s team in 2017. “We can only police the outer bounds of misconduct: the really bad stuff, or at least the stuff that we can prove.”Investigating the PresidentFrom the beginning, the byzantine structure of the Mueller investigation split its dozen-plus prosecutors into silos and specialties: money laundering, hacking, national security and public corruption.Starting in the summer of 2017, when Mr. Trump’s closest White House advisers were summoned to Mr. Mueller’s offices, they typically met the same calm stare and gravelly voice of the man his former high school students still call Mr. Goldstein.With James L. Quarles III, a former prosecutor in the Watergate investigation, Mr. Goldstein has led the office’s investigation into whether the president’s dismissal of the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey — and Mr. Trump’s repeated assaults on the Justice Department — should be considered obstruction of justice.He has tried to determine the president’s motives in Mr. Comey’s firing during dozens of hours questioning Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist, and nearly seven hours with Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law, in April.As evidence built over two years, Mr. Goldstein functioned as a repository of conversations that Mr. Trump had with lawyers, advisers and top law enforcement officials from early 2017 on. Among Mr. Goldstein’s jewels, according to Mr. Trump’s lawyers: exhaustive notes taken by Annie Donaldson, Mr. McGahn’s former chief of staff, which detailed in real time Mr. Trump’s behavior in the West Wing.ImageJames L. Quarles III, a former Watergate prosecutor, along with Mr. Goldstein, leads the obstruction of justice portion of the special counsel’s investigation.CreditTom Brenner for The New York TimesDefense lawyers who worked with Mr. Mueller also say that Mr. Goldstein — a donor to President Barack Obama’s campaigns — is the temperamental opposite of prosecutors on the team like Andrew Weissmann, known for a more hostile disposition. When tensions flared during witness interviews, lawyers would take Mr. Goldstein aside to soothe disputes.That did not mean Mr. Goldstein’s work was seamless: While the president’s legal team was initially cooperative with Mr. Goldstein and his fellow investigators, delivering key witnesses and millions of documents, the mood changed when Mr. Trump brought on the longtime Washington lawyer Emmet T. Flood.Mr. Flood promptly imposed restrictions on the West Wing’s participation, including limits to questions for the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly.Mr. Goldstein acknowledged to associates that Mr. Flood made his life more difficult.‘He Was Very Much Measure 10 Times, Cut Once’Just before Mr. Mueller and some of his earliest hires brought Mr. Goldstein to Washington for job interviews, Mr. Goldstein and the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan faced a political investigation with familiar parallels to Mr. Mueller’s inquiry.Mr. Goldstein was leading a team of prosecutors under Preet Bharara, then the United States attorney in Manhattan, who were investigating whether Mr. de Blasio had committed a series of corruption crimes: bribery, pay-to-play and campaign fraud.Part of the investigation focused on the owner of a scented, rat-repelling trash bag company in Queens who had donated $100,000 to a political advocacy group run by allies of Mr. de Blasio. The owner met with Mr. de Blasio himself, then an aide who set up a meeting between the owner of the company and officials with the city’s parks department. Within a month, he had a $15,000 contract.ImageMr. Goldstein, then the chief of the corruption unit at the United States attorney’s office in the Southern District of New York, and Preet Bharara, his boss at the time, in 2016.CreditDave Sanders for The New York TimesMr. Goldstein’s team churned out pages of analysis on evidence they had gathered on at least four different threads. He would take their work to Mr. Bharara in regular meetings, trying to determine if there was sufficient evidence.The office made a highly unusual decision to release a public statement explaining why Mr. de Blasio would not be charged, citing “the high burden of proof” and the “difficulty in proving criminal intent in corruption schemes where there is no evidence of personal profit.”“He was very much measure 10 times, cut once,” said Kan M. Nawaday, a prosecutor who worked with Mr. Goldstein in the corruption unit. “Nine times out of 10, you do a lot of investigation, and you realize the conduct is pretty terrible and foul. But since you’re here to do justice, it isn’t a crime, and you walk away.”Mr. Goldstein has also gone out of his way to attack defendants who repeatedly fail to tell the truth. “And why do people lie?” Mr. Goldstein said in a closing argument against Sheldon Silver, the former Democratic speaker of the New York State Assembly, who had covered up illegal payments from a friend seeking favors and was found guilty on all counts. “Why do people hide things? Why do people keep secrets? Because they have something to hide.”A Life of Anti-CorruptionMr. Goldstein was born during a campaign fraud trial that his father, Jonathan L. Goldstein, was overseeing as the United States attorney in New Jersey. The birth caused an unexpected recess in the trial as the elder Mr. Goldstein took his wife to the hospital. The event made national news.As a toddler, Mr. Goldstein accompanied his father, a Republican appointee, to work, until President Jimmy Carter and the attorney general at the time, Griffin B. Bell, pushed the elder Mr. Goldstein to resign, replacing him with a Democrat. Incensed, he talked with his young children at the dinner table about his dismissal, warning of the perils of a politicized Justice Department.The younger Mr. Goldstein went on to graduate from Princeton and teach government at his high school alma mater, the private Pingry School in Basking Ridge, N.J. He then turned to covering national education policy and medicine at Time magazine, where in 2000 he investigated the deaths of three toddlers in government-funded day care facilities in Tennessee.Mr. Goldstein filed the article, unsettled that he could not do more. He wanted a career that empowered him to prosecute. By 2005, he had graduated from Yale Law School, and by 2010, he was working for Mr. Bharara, who put him on some of the Southern District of New York’s biggest cases.Walking AwayLike Mr. Mueller, Mr. Goldstein wears starched white dress shirts to work and prizes secrecy. Mr. Goldstein told a friend, Tim Lear, that Mr. Mueller even complained to his prosecutors about being photographed near Donald Trump Jr. at an airport.The investigation has been tiring, too. Mr. Goldstein, who used to attend early-morning SoulCycle classes in Manhattan before big trials, got into an accident biking to Mr. Mueller’s offices last year, when he was searching for ways to exercise while working so late.Now that Mr. Mueller’s work could soon be public, Mr. Goldstein’s record, Mr. Bharara said, is a reminder of what the investigation’s limits might be.“You want to have people who have had experience not only bringing high-profile cases, but in walking away from them because it’s the right thing to do,” he said. “The fact that you have a person who’s comfortable saying there’s nothing here, even though there’s a lot of clamor for it, is exactly the kind of person you want.”Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington, and Ben Protess and Benjamin Weiser from New York. Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Cautious and Calm Prosecutor Quietly Anchors Mueller Team. 

Rust Belt, Sun Belt or Both? Democrats Seek the Best Route to the White House - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Rust Belt, Sun Belt or Both? Democrats Seek the Best Route to the White HouseAdvertisementSupported byRust Belt, Sun Belt or Both? Democrats Seek the Best Route to the White HouseImageSenator Kamala Harris in Ankeny, Iowa, on Saturday. There is a growing school of thought that Democrats should not spend so much energy on heavily white, rural parts of the countryCreditCreditRachel Mummey for The New York TimesBy Jonathan Martin and Alexander BurnsFeb. 25, 2019DES MOINES — At the very first event of her first full day in Iowa as a presidential candidate, Senator Kamala Harris was greeted by a Democratic voter who delivered a pointed recommendation about the best path to the White House.The voter, Rahul Parsa, who teaches at Iowa State University’s business school, said he told Ms. Harris at a gathering of Asian and Latino activists that she needs to think of the Democratic Party in the Midwest like a struggling retail business — and that she should seek out not just the regular customers, but those who are not loyal supporters as well. “Kamala needs to find out why the people voted for Trump, what are their issues?” said Mr. Parsa, adding that he had one overarching demand for the burgeoning field of would-be nominees: “You need to bring some states in the Midwest.”As the Democratic race takes flight, with one or more candidates entering the race almost every week, Mr. Parsa’s viewpoint represents one side of a long-simmering debate within the party: Should Democrats redouble their efforts to win back the industrial heartland that effectively delivered the presidency to Donald J. Trump? Or should they turn their attention to more demographically promising Sun Belt states like Georgia and Arizona?With polls indicating that electoral viability is as important to voters as any policy issue, a handful of the party’s prospects are already holding up their Midwestern credentials to make the case that they are the ones who can turn Big Ten country — Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin — blue again.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota went immediately to next-door Wisconsin after declaring her candidacy earlier this month, making a hard-to-miss point about her eagerness to compete in a state Hillary Clinton never visited in the 2016 general election. Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who has not officially entered the race, used his first Iowa trip to make a beeline for a county that went for former President Barack Obama by over 20 points in 2012 but fell to Mr. Trump by about the same margin four years later. And a central premise of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s potential candidacy is that the Scranton-born Democrat would be the political mason best able to reconstruct the party’s so-called Midwestern blue wall.Yet far away from the mounting snowdrifts that line every curb here, there is a growing school of thought that Democrats should not spend so much time, money and psychic energy tailoring their message to a heavily white, rural and blue-collar part of the country when their coalition is increasingly made up of racial minorities and suburbanites. The party should still pursue voters who have drifted toward Republicans, this thinking goes, but should also place a high priority on mobilizing communities more amenable to progressive politics.The numerical swap between the three Rust Belt states that handed Mr. Trump the White House and the most alluring trio of Sun Belt targets is nearly even: Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin have a combined 46 electoral votes, while North Carolina, Georgia and Arizona offer 42. And an aspirational “reach” state like Texas would offer a larger trove of electoral votes for Democrats than the combined total of Ohio and Iowa, states that have started to slip away from the party.2016 Presidential Election Results, by Electoral Votes
Won by Clinton
Won by Trump
Industrial Midwest
MICH.
16
WIS. 10
IOWA 6
PA. 20
OHIO
18
N.C. 15
TEX.
38
GA. 16
ARIZ.
11
FLA. 29
Sunbelt
Won by Clinton
Won by Trump
Industrial Midwest
MICH.
16
WIS. 10
IOWA 6
PA. 20
OHIO
18
N.C. 15
TEX.
38
GA. 16
ARIZ.
11
Sunbelt
FLA. 29
Won by Clinton
Industrial Midwest
Won by Trump
MICH.
16
WIS. 10
IOWA 6
PA. 20
OHIO
18
ARIZ.
11
N.C. 15
TEX.
38
GA. 16
Sunbelt
FLA. 29
Election results from The Associated PressBy The New York TimesThe dispute is not merely a tactical one — it goes to the heart of how Democrats envision themselves becoming a majority party. The question is whether that is accomplished through a focus on kitchen-table topics like health care and jobs, aimed at winning moderates and disaffected Trump voters, or by unapologetically elevating matters of race and identity, such as immigration, to mobilize young people and minorities with new fervor.Julián Castro, the former federal housing secretary and mayor of San Antonio who is running for the Democratic nomination, said reclaiming the Midwest should be Democrats’ “top priority.” He said Mr. Trump had plainly failed voters there, “whether it’s been on trade or the loss of jobs at G.M.” But Mr. Castro also urged the party to stretch the electoral map far deeper into Republican territory, suggesting that, with the right candidate, Democrats could deal Mr. Trump a crippling blow by turning even Texas blue.“The Sun Belt is clearly turning against him,” Mr. Castro said of the president, adding, “I do think candidates that can connect with growing, diverse states like Arizona, Texas, Florida and Georgia, it makes a big difference.”Mr. Castro cited his own historic status to suggest he could do just that: “Among other things, I’m young, and, as a groundbreaking Latino candidate, I’m convinced that the turnout out there in the Latino community will go through the roof.”ImageJulián Castro, the former federal housing secretary, at an event in Boone, Iowa, on Saturday. He said reclaiming the Midwest should be Democrats’ “top priority."CreditStephen Maturen/Getty ImagesStacey Abrams, the Georgia Democrat who narrowly lost the governorship there last year and is considering a Senate bid next year, was even blunter. “The accelerating diversity of the new American majority demands a fresh approach to winning elections, which will yield more representative leadership and policies that serve all,” said Ms. Abrams, adding that “our electorate must be built on infrequent voters who share our values.”But the suggestion that Democrats should de-emphasize what has long been the pre-eminent battleground in presidential politics is enough to rouse deep anger among officeholders in the Midwest.“It drives me crazy,” said Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, who rolled to an easy victory last year in a state Mr. Trump narrowly won. “To put any particular part of the country into a general classification and write them off is ridiculous.”Ms. Whitmer said she won “by going into areas most Democrats wouldn’t spend their time going.” She added, “You show up at a bowling alley.”[Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking. Our Democratic candidate tracker]To other Democrats in the region, it is not just a matter of showing up. The approach to policy matters, too. In contrast to those on the left who say the only way to win is to energize progressives with an ambitious agenda, Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin said the party would do best in his state with a pragmatic candidate who recognized that dramatic policy proposals — like free college and “Medicare for all” — were aspirational goals rather than do-or-die demands.“I think Wisconsin is very winnable,” Mr. Evers said. “But it has to be someone that speaks to the issues but also is viewed as rational.’’ Asked if the Upper Midwest represented Democrats’ fastest route back to the White House, Mr. Evers, a soft-spoken former state education official, answered with a twinkle-eyed smile. “Hell yes,” he said.To Democrats in the Midwest, the cardinal sin of the 2016 campaign was Mrs. Clinton’s failure to deliver a concrete and persuasive economic message, leaving traditionally Democratic blue-collar constituencies either uninspired to vote or tempted to support Mr. Trump.2020 Candidates Are Lining Up. Which Democrat Matches the Moment?Dec. 31, 2018Democrats Have Two Paths for 2020: Daring or Defensive. Can They Settle on Either?Nov. 10, 2018Obama Quietly Gives Advice to 2020 Democrats, but No EndorsementFeb. 18, 2019Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois, a longtime ally of Mrs. Clinton’s who took office this year, said the party should be on offense across the map in 2020. But he described unlocking the Midwest as their paramount imperative, and he urged Democrats to speak in vivid terms about the changing economy and to compete even in rural, conservative-leaning areas that rarely support the party’s candidates.“You cannot get to the White House without winning the Midwest,” Mr. Pritzker said, arguing that economic issues transcended other social divisions in much of the region. “You do have to be able to speak to people where the manufacturing base has been eroded, where the skills gap is widening, where the jobs are changing.”But Mr. Pritzker said the 2020 Democratic ticket had to mirror the party's complex coalition, too. “It’s hard to believe that our party, which is truly representative of the diversity of America, could ever again put forward a ticket that’s two white men, for sure, or two white people,” he said.The more serious risk to backing away from the Midwest, Democrats here and elsewhere say, is that the party could endanger its newly won House majority and all but concede a long-term Republican majority in the Senate by not plowing top-of-the-ticket resources across the Great Lakes region.“If you can’t make the case to — and you don’t show up for — rural voters, you’re never going to have the Senate, so you’re never going to be able to govern,” said the former agriculture secretary and Iowa governor Tom Vilsack.ImageSenator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota went immediately to Wisconsin after declaring her candidacy earlier this month.CreditTim Gruber for The New York TimesFor many Democrats, there is no choice to be made. While the Midwest might be enough to win them the presidency, only sweeping victories across both regions would be enough to secure the White House and both chambers of Congress.The stakes for Democrats may be highest in the Senate, where they face a structural disadvantage because of the outsized clout of rural conservative states. Party leaders have increasingly looked to the Sun Belt — and recruits like Ms. Abrams and Beto O’Rourke in Texas — to offset Democrats’ growing weakness in the Farm Belt and the rural West.“One of the big lessons we learned in 2018 is that the party as a whole needs to think bigger than it traditionally has and create a larger footprint in the map,” said Dan Sena, a New Mexico-raised strategist who masterminded the Democrats’ House takeover last year by pushing the party to compete for once-forbidding seats in both Iowa and Georgia.And of course, the Democrats aspiring to be president have the most interest in a both-paths approach.Ms. Klobuchar may have vowed she would “not leave the Midwest behind,” but last weekend she sped to Atlanta and paid a visit to Ms. Abrams and former President Jimmy Carter. And Mr. Brown spent the weekend in the increasingly diverse, and Democratic, early nominating state of Nevada.“We need to compete among working-class voters of all races everywhere in the country,” he said by phone Sunday as he made his way through the Las Vegas airport, arguing that his “message works everywhere.”But Mr. Brown was just as quick to point out that no Republican has ever won the presidency without carrying Ohio, and he offered what amounts to a chilling reminder to Democrats when asked about the wisdom of downplaying the Midwest. “I don’t want to wake up the day after the election in 2020 and win the popular vote by 4.5 million and lose the Electoral College,” he said.Jonathan Martin reported from Des Moines and Alexander Burns from WashingtonJonathan Martin is a national political correspondent. He has reported on a range of topics, including the 2016 presidential election and several state and congressional races, while also writing for Sports, Food and the Book Review. He is also a CNN political analyst.
@jmartnyt Alexander Burns is a national political correspondent, covering elections and political power across the country, including Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign. Before coming to The Times in 2015, he covered the 2012 presidential election for Politico.
@alexburnsNYT A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Different Paths
For Democrats To Win in 2020. 

The Captionfluencers - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexStyleSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperStyle|The CaptionfluencersAdvertisementSupported by The CaptionfluencersInstagram, known for photos that inspire envy and ire, has also become home to those who write their hearts out. By Ruth La FerlaMarch 27, 2019ImageBill Mullen, a fashion stylist and illustrator, wants you to know that he used to wear a belt made out of teeth, skulls on every finger and cataracts of crosses, his exotic turnout once spurring a stranger to bellow, “Go for it, space monkey, go for it.”Solange Knowles is touting “Metatronia," an architecturally inspired performance piece conceived to explore the relationship of movement and architecture. “It's been a dream,” she confides, “to build modular sculptures that can tour, interact, and engage with the public.” And Caroline Calloway, a writer and eyebrow-raising social-media diva, is happy to share what may be more than you ever wanted to know about her relationship with her father: “Scary,” she confides, “to see a parent living in a home full of dirt and trash and hoarded things.”Famous or possibly hoping to be, they are members of a chorus, voices resonating in supersize captions, some as long as 300 words, published not on Facebook or Tumblr, as you may suspect, but on their Instagram feeds.Champions of the long-form post, they are confounding expectations.Instagram, after all, was conceived as a photography app, a place to post the contents of a fancy meal, catch the play of light on a tousled bed, celebrate a professional coup, show off a bikini body or a family trip to the beach.It’s flourishing now as one of the web’s most compelling storytelling platforms, a repository for uplifting confessions, compressed screeds, some with candidly political overtones, self-help digests, mini essays and speculative musings and, perhaps most compellingly, serialized memoirs in sound-bite form.No question, the long-form caption is trending, said Marcus Messner, an associate director of the Richard T. Robertson School of Media and Culture at Virginia Commonwealth University. It’s being exploited as a bid for attention, a quest for connection and, not incidentally, Dr. Messner noted, as a way to foster the kind of visceral engagement that photos alone cannot hope to command.Megacaptions, which first became popular a couple of years ago, have prompted more than one observer to anoint them as a modish alternative to blogging. “Lately, I’ve started to wonder if Instagram is the new WordPress,” Harling Ross, an editor at Man Repeller, wrote at the time.It may or may not be all that. But as a catchall for the sorts of brief, often emotionally charged narratives that used to proliferate on personal blogs, the wordy caption is clearly gaining traction.“People write long captions to document big moments in their lives that are both positive and challenging,” said Robby Stein, the director of product for Instagram. Last year, to encourage and facilitate those stream-of-consciousness ramblings, Instagram introduced Type Mode, a facsimile of an old typewriter font, to be used on Instagram Stories, the Snapchat-like feature where people post texts, photos and videos, which then disappear after 24 hours.Using such features can be cathartic and can generate suspense. “You relate to the person posting a photo and text from a hospital bed,” Dr. Messner said. “You can’t wait to see what comes next.”In recent months, Lena Dunham, that consummate mistress of the let-it-all-hang-out narrative, chronicled the psychic and physical fallout from a series of surgeries. Intending to inspire, she posted a solemn missive alongside a selfie that showed her in pajamas, making Sculpey beads at her dining table.“Some of us need to heal because we are scared, because people we love and people we identify with and people we could very well be are under attack,” she posted. “It is a fog that doesn’t really lift.”Her own mists appear to be clearing: Next to her portrait she told her fans, “Here I am healing my mind & hands.”Mr. Mullen, lyrically and often movingly, chronicles the triumphs and trials of coming of age in New York in the early 1980s. “I used to envision the city as a fantasy of hope, but now the place that was going to save me was scaring me,” he wrote in a post commemorating World Aids Day. “I remember thinking that God was giving me a warning.”It’s more than visual frothWith plenty of outlets for verbal self-expression, why write at length on Instagram? Well, there is, for starters, the platform’s enormous popularity. And for users, there have been fewer hurdles to clear. “In early days of Facebook, you had to be friends with other people on Facebook, you had to be invited,” Mr. Stein said. “Instagram has always had a completely public profile. It was easier to share.”Supersize captions are often most riveting as an expression of so-called realness, lending heft and credibility and to a medium long sniffed at as visual froth.“Ultimately, users are deeper than the glossy or like-for-like images that pervade their feeds,” said Clare Acheson, a branding strategist with Trout Creative Thinking, an advertising agency in Melbourne, Australia.“An image may first spark their curiosity, and then they seek to discover context,” Ms. Acheson said, “whether that be a news-based narrative, op-ed commentary or a personal account of an experience that tells a fuller story and explains the ‘why’ behind the image.”Long captions can be purely descriptive. On @ZoeBakes, Zoe Francois details the inspiration behind her candied confections. While creating her rose-decorated almond Bundt cake, “My head was flooded with images of the red carpet dresses at the Oscars; Vintage Easter Bonnets and Bridal Showers,” she wrote. “That’s a lot of pressure for one little cake.”The messages can also be a call to action. In a recent post, Amani Al-Khatahtbeh, an outspoken advocate for Muslim women, huffs: “The amount of wallah bros that use ‘You’re my sister in Islam !!!!’ to justify their entitlement to harass women they don’t even know about the way they dress,” adding an admonitory, “Sheesh do better, please, Brothers!” Extended posts can also be part of a marketing strategy, as Michelle Obama grasped when earlier this year she began documenting the publicity tour for her “Becoming” memoir. On her feed she offered uplift: “We’ve all struggled with the balancing act that can take over days, years, or decades of our lives. And I want us all to remember that these are the moments and lessons that make us who we are, every little twist and turn, every little bump and bruise, and ultimately every joy …”Such posts invite the kind of introspection that Instagram has encouraged only recently. “Instagram is a very twitchy medium where you click, click, click and then go on to the next thing,” said Richert Schnorr, the director of digital media for the New York Public Library. “On social media, people are craving something more.”It may be a sketch, or even a novel. In partnership with Mother, an advertising agency in New York, the library recently published “Alice in Wonderland,” “The Metamorphosis” and “A Christmas Carol” on Instagram. “When Alice was published,” Mr. Schnorr recalled, “we had well over 100,000 new followers in 48 hours, a spike unlike anything we’ve ever seen.”We want to be seen — and heardBeefed-up diary entries, too, have been such a hit that an app, Instagram Memoir, briefly surfaced as a $5 download on the Apple Store, its objective to encourage journaling by students in grades 3 to 12. Extra-long captions can be an outlet for news or, in darker instances, hate-mongering and sociopolitical extremism, as Taylor Lorenz observed in The Atlantic. But it also offers space for soul-searching. Mr. Mullen, the fashion stylist, introduced his Insta-diary almost three years ago. “I thought: ‘Here I am in my 50s. I have a career that’s good, a mortgage, a partner — all these good things in life,’” he said. “But I felt that somewhere along the way I had let go a little part of what I am.”He found that posting his largely unfiltered reflections was both healing and liberating. “This is the only way that we can really connect with people,” he said. “It’s the only way that we can talk honestly about our human condition, instead of posting a photo of our feet in the air in first class on Air Emirates.”Paul Cavaco, a celebrity stylist, advances a sophisticated variation on the journal entry, drawing back the curtain on the behind-the-scenes antics of some legendary fashion shoots, not least a Steven Meisel portrait of Madonna in a bra and crinoline, shot in the early ’90s for Rolling Stone. For the photo the pop queen needed some jeans, Mr. Cavaco recalled, so he stripped off his own and handed them over, darting around in his skivvies for the duration of the shoot.“We’re so inundated with images, but we have no idea of the back story,” Mr. Cavaco said. His meandering captions, which add up to an engrossing memoir of a life in fashion, triggered a jump in engagement. “There were comments, lots of them,” he said. “I would find myself going to read them. It spurred me on.”But if we tell ourselves stories in order to live, as Joan Didion famously observed, we also tell them in order to brand. No need to clue in the 27-year-old Ms. Calloway. A self-proclaimed progenitor of the Insta-memoir, she began to draw notice in 2015, documenting her adventures and romantic exploits while an art history student at Cambridge University. Her knowing, deliberately self-deprecating, fablelike reflections (they are archived on her account) were a smash with her followers, many of whom could only dream of sharing a life style that encompassed gamboling on the college green or watching her boyfriend mount a polo pony. She has haters, for sure (who wouldn’t, with more than 800,000 followers?). She was publicly chastised for defaulting on a $500,000 book deal based on her Instagram feed, having already spent $100,000 of her advance. Earlier this year, others called her out for failing to deliver on a zealously promoted multicity series of creativity workshops that were to be highlighted by lofty talks, girlie lunches and gift bags. When the series did not live up to its promise, Ms. Calloway was branded a scammer, the tour tartly labeled “Fyre Festival 2.” She was quick to apologize, ascribing the debacle to her own lapses in organization and follow-through. These days she is offering a less cosmeticized version of herself on Instagram Stories. “Looking back,” she said in an interview, referring to her earlier posts and a rarely mentioned Adderall addiction, “I think how much more vulnerable I could have been with my audience.” In exposing her frailties she is hardly unique. “My period is coming. My face is broken out, and I’ve laid on the floor crying a lot in the last 2 weeks,” Sophie Gray, a 24-year-old fitness guru, wrote on her Instagram. That abject confession appears alongside a close-up of her seriously blemished complexion.“Flawed? Nah, human,” she wrote in the companion text.Like many of her contemporaries, Ms. Gray, who promotes brands on her feed from time to time, relies on those texts to tout her genuineness. “You are making yourself vulnerable to build an audience,” she said in an interview. “Instead of posting content to be just looked at, I try to open up dialogue with my readers.“On Instagram, people want to be seen — and to be heard,” she said. To that end, she is exploiting the medium as a place to wax chatty and showily candid about her own and her readers’ body image issues.High time, it seems. “I could not keep up with the facade that social media creates,” Ms. Gray said. “It’s exhausting to pretend that things are O.K. all the time.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Photographs. Paragraphs.. 

Elizabeth Warren Wants a Wealth Tax. How Would That Even Work? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperThe Upshot|Elizabeth Warren Wants a Wealth Tax. How Would That Even Work?AdvertisementUpshotSupported byElizabeth Warren Wants a Wealth Tax. How Would That Even Work?There are other tools that don’t involve quite the risks and challenges of targeting the richest families. ImageSome of the nation's most powerful families would surely use their
resources to fight a wealth tax. CreditCreditYuriko Nakao (Japan Politics Business)/ReutersBy Neil IrwinFeb. 18, 2019When the United States government wants to raise money from individuals, its mode of choice, for more than a century, has been to tax what people earn — the income they receive from work or investments.But what if instead the government taxed the wealth you had accumulated?That is the idea behind a policy Senator Elizabeth Warren has embraced in her presidential campaign. It represents a more substantial rethinking of the federal government’s approach to taxation than anything a major presidential candidate has proposed in recent memory — a new wealth tax that would have enormous implications for inequality.ImageSenator Elizabeth Warren's plan: a tax on a family’s wealth above $50 million at 2 percent a year, with an additional surcharge of 1 percent on wealth over $1 billion.CreditCharlie Neibergall/Associated PressIt would shift more of the burden of paying for government toward the families that have accumulated fortunes in the hundreds of millions or billions of dollars. And over time, such a tax would make it less likely that such fortunes develop.It would create big new challenges for the I.R.S. in ensuring compliance. There is a reason many European countries that once had a wealth tax have abandoned it in the last couple of decades.And that’s before you get to the legal and political challenges. There is an open debate around whether a wealth tax is constitutional. And some of the most powerful families in the country would certainly deploy their vast resources against a wealth tax, and against any candidate who embraces it.Wealth, income, eh, what’s the difference?The comedian Chris Rock had a routine in the early 2000s in which he expounded on the distinction between those who are rich and those who are wealthy.Shaquille O’Neal, the star basketball player, was rich, Mr. Rock said. The team owner who signed his paycheck was wealthy. And that, in a nutshell, gets at the conceptual difference between trying to tax people’s income, as the tax code does today, versus their wealth.ImageLakers center Shaquille O’Neal in 2002: Rich, but perhaps not wealthy.CreditLucy Nicholson/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesThe C.E.O. of Walmart makes about $22 million a year. He is rich by any definition. But the Walton family, descendants of the company’s founder, are mind-bogglingly wealthy. The Bloomberg Billionaires index estimates that Sam Walton’s three living children are worth around $45 billion each, putting them each among the 20 wealthiest people in the world.A family that has accumulated enormous wealth can escape with surprisingly low income levels, and therefore tax burdens.In an extreme example, Warren Buffett owns enough stock in Berkshire Hathaway to put his estimated net worth at $84 billion, but he pays himself $100,000 a year to be its chief executive. Even in years when his wealth rises by billions, he must pay tax only on his comparatively modest income and on the gains from shares that he chooses to sell.Ms. Warren and other advocates of a wealth tax argue that this accumulation of untaxed or lightly taxed wealth is a bad thing. They say that it enables the creation of democracy-distorting dynasties who accumulate political power, and that tax policy should be used to rein them in more than the current tax code does.What is the Warren plan?Developed by Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman, two University of California, Berkeley, economists who are leading scholars of inequality, the proposal is to tax a family’s wealth above $50 million at 2 percent a year, with an additional surcharge of 1 percent on wealth over $1 billion.Mr. Saez and Mr. Zucman estimate that 75,000 households would owe such a tax, or about one out of 1,700 American families.A family worth $60 million would owe the federal government $200,000 in wealth tax, over and above what they may owe on income from wages, dividends or interest payments.If the estimates of his net worth are accurate, Mr. Buffett would owe the I.R.S. about $2.5 billion a year, in addition to income or capital gains taxes. The Waltons would owe about $1.3 billion each.The tax would therefore chip away at the net worth of the extremely rich, especially if they mainly hold investments with low returns, like bonds, or depreciating assets like yachts.It would work a little like the property tax that most cities and states impose on real estate, an annual payment tied to the value of assets rather than income. But instead of applying just to homes and land, it would apply to everything: fine art collections, yachts and privately held businesses. What are the arguments against it?They are both philosophical and practical.On the philosophical side, you can argue that people who have earned money, and paid appropriate income tax on it, are entitled to the wealth they accumulate.Moreover, the wealth that individual families accumulate under the current system is arguably likelier to be put to work investing in large-scale projects that make the economy stronger. They can invest in innovative companies, for example, or huge real estate projects, in ways that small investors generally can’t.It could disincentivize the kinds of moonshot investments that don’t pay steady, predictable returns but can transform society. After all, if wealthy investors are on the hook for a wealth tax every year, they may strongly favor investments that pay a steady, reliable dividend over those that are risky and will take many years to pay off.Then there are the practical concerns.Figuring out a person’s total net worth can be a lot of work. Just ask anyone who has had to sort through a large estate after the death of a relative to submit estate taxes.ImageWarren Buffett owns enough stock in Berkshire Hathaway to put his estimated net worth at $84 billion.CreditRick Wilking/ReutersIf the deceased owned financial assets like stock and bonds, it’s pretty easy to check a brokerage statement and surmise the value. But if the estate consisted of a collection of rare antiques — or interests in various real estate or oil and gas projects, or closely held companies — estimating the value is harder.It can require an army of appraisers and other experts and an often prolonged period of I.R.S. audits and disputes over valuation.“Presumably, a wealth tax would apply to the same sort of base, except that it would be annual rather than just when a person dies,” said Beth Shapiro Kaufman, an estates lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale.The very wealthy would have a permanent, continuing need to tally the value of their assets and defend those valuations to the federal government. The Warren plan includes substantial new funding for I.R.S. staff to enforce the law.And some people may have their wealth tied up in things not easily converted to cash. An early investor in Uber or another company that has achieved a high valuation without going public might have a high enough net worth to owe a wealth tax, but not the easily accessible funds to pay it.Mr. Zucman argues that people wealthy enough to owe this tax would generally have ample access to credit, and that the law could even be structured to let people pay their tax obligations with illiquid assets.Gene Sperling, a former National Economic Council director in the Obama and Clinton administrations who now supports a wealth tax, said: “If we were sitting here in 1932 saying we need to create a Social Security system, it would have seemed very complex, but if it’s important enough, you don’t let some complexity become a reason not to push forward.”Couldn’t rich people just hide their assets overseas?The wealth tax Ms. Warren proposes would also apply to assets that American citizens own overseas. So in theory, a wealthy American citizen would owe tax on his Panamanian bank account and his Swiss ski chalet.Ensuring payment would be tricky, which is why the proposal includes all those new I.R.S. employees and stronger international coordination to stop tax avoidance and evasion — as well as an “exit fee” that Americans would need to pay if they sought to renounce their citizenship.Have other countries tried this? Does it work?There’s an old line attributed to a 17th-century French politician that the art of taxation is to pluck a goose so as to obtain the largest possible quantity of feathers with a minimum amount of hissing. In the recent past, wealth taxes have failed that test.In the early 2000s, 10 developed countries had a net wealth tax, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That is now down to three, the O.E.C.D said: Switzerland, Norway and Spain. France recently changed its wealth tax into a tax only on real estate, more akin to the American property tax.One problem was that some of the wealth tax plans kicked in at a relatively low level, meaning a vast number of upper-middle-class people faced its nuisance and expense. In Europe, especially, it created incentives for people to relocate.Mr. Zucman says the United States, as a large country, is better positioned than small countries where wealthy citizens are likely to be highly mobile already. The idea is that Americans will be less likely to renounce their citizenship to avoid paying out a couple of percent of their net worth every year.Is this even legal?An income tax is clearly authorized by the 16th Amendment, which states that Congress has the power to “lay and collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived.” A wealth tax is more likely to raise constitutional questions, and it’s a near certainty that well-funded opponents would wage a legal battle against it.(Josh Barro at New York Magazine lays out the legal questions here.)Is there a simpler way to reduce inequality?There is. Some tax experts say changes to existing law would accomplish many of the goals of a wealth tax.One example that Leonard Burman of Syracuse University and the Urban Institute has suggested is to eliminate a provision of current law in which assets that increase in value can go essentially untaxed across generations.If you start a company and its value appreciates over your lifetime, then it is transferred to a family member upon your death, no capital gains taxes are collected on those decades of appreciation. The family member gets to start over at its current valuation for capital gains purposes.This “step-up” provision is one of numerous ways that families can accumulate great wealth with minimal taxation. It could be eliminated. Laws could be changed to make it harder to avoid the estate tax, which currently kicks in at about $11 million for an individual and about $23 million for a married couple.If you want a tax system that leans more aggressively against dynastic wealth and high inequality, there are, in other words, tools that don’t involve quite the risks and challenges of a wealth tax.But those are a lot harder to capture in a campaign ad, and in the public imagination.Correction: Feb. 18, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated the threshold for estate tax. It is around $23 million for a married couple, not around $11 million.Neil Irwin is a senior economics correspondent for The Upshot. He previously wrote for The Washington Post and is the author of “The Alchemists: Three Central Bankers and a World on Fire.”
@Neil_Irwin • Facebook A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Plan to Tax the Wealth of the Superrich
May Be Better on Paper Than in Practice. 

DealBook Special: Everything You Need to Know About the Lyft I.P.O. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperDealBook|DealBook Special: Everything You Need to Know About the Lyft I.P.O.AdvertisementDealBook Business and PolicySupported byDealBook Special: Everything You Need to Know About the Lyft I.P.O.ImageLyft hopes to be valued at $23 billion when it makes its public market debut in the coming week.CreditCreditLucy Nicholson/ReutersMarch 24, 2019Good Sunday morning, and welcome to a special edition of the DealBook Briefing, where we’ll take a deep dive into Lyft’s upcoming public offering. It’s the first of many decacorns about to go public. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)And … they’re off!Lyft plans to make its public market debut in the coming week. The car sharing company’s I.P.O. will be the first of many highly valued tech companies that are expected to hit American stock exchanges this year.Uber, Slack, Postmates and Pinterest have all filed documents with the S.E.C. to list shares. Palantir, Peloton and possibly Airbnb are expected to follow later this year.America’s most successful start-ups have remained off-limits to most investors for years:• Venture capital cash allowed America’s current wave of unicorns to eschew the public markets — and the spotlight that comes with them.• That means a large portion of investors have been unable to buy a slice of the fastest-growing start-ups.With Lyft’s I.P.O., that’s about to change, which explains much of the excitement it is generating. Here’s your cheat sheet for the offering.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Stephen Grocer in New York and edited by Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________How Lyft’s business stacks upFounded by Logan Green and John Zimmer in 2007, Lyft was initially called Zimride and focused on pooling riders for long-distance trips. In 2012, Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer renamed the company Lyft and shifted the business toward providing short trips, mimicking taxi rides.Here’s how it sizes up today:• Lyft gave 18.6 million people at least one ride in the last quarter of 2018, up from 6.6 million in late 2016.• It has a 39 percent share of the United States ride-sharing market,
based on estimates by the Japanese e-commerce company Rakuten, which is an investor in Lyft. That is up from 22 percent in 2016. But Lyft has been offering discounts to riders ahead of its offering, and the company warned: “We believe that much of the growth in our rider base and the number of drivers on our platform is attributable to our paid marketing initiatives.”• Lyft only operates in the U.S. and Canada, unlike Uber, which has operations across the globe.• But it has matched its rival’s innovation, by developing self-driving car technology and expanding into short-term bike and scooter rentals.Its plan for the offeringLyft will list its shares on the Nasdaq under the ticker of, er, “LYFT.”The company expects to be valued at as much as $23 billion. It plans to sell about 35.4 million shares, including the additional shares allotted to the underwriters, at between $62 to $68 a piece. At the high-end of that range, it will raise $2.4 billion.That’s well above the $15.1 billion that private investors valued it at during a financing round in June.And it would make it one of the largest I.P.O.s in the past 10 years. At a $23 billion valuation, Lyft’s offering would rank as the fifth largest since the financial crisis, and among the largest ever for American technology start-ups — only Facebook’s I.P.O. in 2012 would be larger.Image JPMorgan Chase, Credit Suisse and Jefferies are the lead underwriters of the I.P.O. for Lyft. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, the top underwriters of tech I.P.O.s recently, are both working on Uber’s offering.In all, Lyft will have 29 underwriters for its I.P.O., 13 (or 45 percent) of which are firms owned or led by women, minorities and military veterans. By comparison, such firms accounted for 30 percent of the underwriters Facebook selected for its I.P.O. and 14 percent for Snap’s.Lyft’s vision for maintaining controlAfter going public, the company will have two classes of stock: class A shares, which carry one vote each, and class B shares, which carry 20 votes. Lyft plans to sell only class A shares in the offering.Lyft’s two founders will hold the Class B shares. That means that Mr. Green, the C.E.O., and Mr. Zimmer, the president, will own roughly 5 percent of the company’s outstanding stock but control nearly 49 percent of its voting shares.This is quite normal in Silicon Valley. Facebook and Google went public with a dual-class structure that gave outside shareholders one vote per share and insiders 10 votes per share. Snap went further: It issued only nonvoting shares during its 2017 I.P.O.But the practice is increasingly controversial among governance experts. Kenneth Bertsch, the executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, said in a letter to Lyft’s outside board members: “The principle of one-share, one-vote is a foundation of good corporate governance and equitable treatment of investors.”Companies with dual-class stock structures outperformed those with a single stock structure in recent years, according to some studies. But prior to 2010, studies show, such companies didn’t perform as well.A look at Lyft’s booksLyft is growing quickly. Its revenue more than doubled to $2.16 billion last year from 2017.Its losses are also increasing, though not nearly as quickly. The company reported a loss of $911 million last year, up from $688 million in 2017. Total costs and expenses were $3.1 billion in 2018, up 77 percent from $1.8 billion in 2017.Image Uber’s losses are smaller in percentage terms. Lyft’s rival, which has disclosed its finances for several years even though it is not public, said in February that it lost $1.8 billion in 2018 on net revenue of $11.3 billion.Bookings, which represent fares less taxes, tolls and tips, surpassed $8 billion last year for Lyft, 76 percent more than in 2017. (In 2018, Uber increased its bookings to $50 billion, up 45 percent from 2017.)Lyft plans to funnel some future profits into ethical investing. In its pitch to investors, it says it expects “to invest the greater of 1% of our profits or $50 million annually toward our social impact efforts.”What can go wrong?The risk factor section of any I.P.O. prospectus acts as a warning label for investors. Lyft’s is no different, but it offers a discussion of regulatory and data security issues that could become a recurring theme in this year’s I.P.O.s.Rivals: The company faces a long list of competitors on several fronts. Uber, Gett (along with its acquisition Juno) and Via are its main ride-sharing rivals, along with regular taxi companies and automotive manufacturers, such as BMW, that are looking to enter the sector. Its bike and scooter sharing business faces competition from Lime, Bird and Uber’s acquisition Jump. And Waymo, Apple, Baidu, Uber and a number of other tech and auto companies compete with it on autonomous vehicles.Regulation: Lyft says its industry is “rapidly evolving and increasingly regulated.” It warns investors that it has “been subject to intense regulatory pressure from state and municipal regulatory authorities across the United States and Canada, and a number of them have imposed limitations on or attempted to ban ride sharing.”Labor: Lyft’s million-plus drivers are independent contractors, not employees. Legal actions that classify them as employees “could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations,” the company says.Autonomous driving: Among the biggest risks involved in the push to driverless cars is getting beaten in the race. The first companies to offer autonomous ride sharing “are expected to have long-term advantages compared with traditional non-autonomous ride sharing offerings,” Lyft says.Who’s going to get rich?For Lyft’s current shareholders and employees, the I.P.O. could provide a windfall. Here’s a rundown of who stands to gain.• Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer will hold stakes in the company that are set to be worth $570 million and $390 million, respectively.• The Japanese e-commerce giant Rakuten is Lyft’s biggest shareholder, with a 13 percent stake. At $68 a share, its holdings would be valued at $2.1 billion. It will own 11.6 percent of Lyft’s stock after the I.P.O.• General Motors invested $500 million in Lyft in 2016. That stake could be worth as much as $1.27 billion at the time of the I.P.O.• The fund giant Fidelity is Lyft’s third largest shareholder. Its stake could be worth as much as $1.26 billion.• Alphabet owns 12,828,964 shares, most of them purchased by its venture capital arm, CapitalG. That stake is worth $870 million at the high end of the range.• The venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz was among the earliest investors in Lyft. At $68 a share, the firm’s stake will be valued at just over $1 billion.Inside Lyft’s boardGovernments and money managers have made a push to improve gender diversity on corporate boards. Last fall, California, where Lyft is headquartered, became the first state to require its publicly held corporations to include women on their boards.Lyft will have three women on its board:• Valerie Jarrett. The former senior adviser to President Barack Obama has been on Lyft’s board since July 2017.• Maggie Wilderotter. The former chief executive of the telecom company Frontier Communications joined Lyft’s board in May 2018.• Ann Miura-Ko. The co-founder of Floodgate Fund, a venture capital firm, has served on the board since June 2016.Rounding out the board of directors are: its chairman, Sean Aggarwal, of Soar Capital; Ben Horowitz of Andreessen Horowitz; David Lawee of CapitalG; and Hiroshi Mikitani of Rakuten.What everyone’s saying about the I.P.O.Lyft and Uber are unlike any other businesses, Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion writes. That “makes it difficult for potential investors to feel confident that they’re paying the right price given the potential reward and the potential risk that the on-demand ride business isn’t financially viable or as large as optimists believe.”Lyft’s investors “will need to strap themselves in for what may be long periods of rather ugly numbers,” according to Heard on the Street’s Dan Gallagher. That’s because “decacorns tend to share two characteristics: plenty of money and a propensity to spend it in a race to build up share.”“Investors may still want to decide between” Lyft and Uber, argues Richard Beales of Breakingviews. “If their fear of missing out allows them to look past the absence of foreseeable profit at either company, though, it’s hard to see any sensible course other than to put money on both.”“The last time a fast-growing, lossmaking tech company tried this hard to persuade Wall Street to judge it by its own measure of profits, things didn’t end well,” the FT’s Richard Waters writes. He is referring to Groupon.And finally, its elevator pitchAn I.P.O. prospectus often features an idealistic, sometimes corny, letter from the company’s founders about their vision for the firm. Here are a couple of choice cuts from Lyft’s letter:“The Y in Lyft. The why in what Lyft is doing is most important to us, as well as the cities and communities we serve, and it will always be our company’s North Star. Lyft’s mission is to: improve people’s lives with the world’s best transportation.”“Lyft has the opportunity to deliver one of the most significant shifts to society since the advent of the car. We do not take that lightly, and we intend to lead this shift with integrity, humanity and strong execution.”Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.You can find live updates throughout the week at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B5 of the New York edition with the headline: What You Need to Know About the Lyft I.P.O.. 

Trump Dismisses 81 House Document Requests. Here’s Where They Went. - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|Trump Dismisses 81 House Document Requests. Here’s Where They Went.AdvertisementSupported byTrump Dismisses 81 House Document Requests. Here’s Where They Went.The president can instruct executive branch agencies to shield key evidence if he chooses. But it is unlikely that he alone can shake off the dragnet stretched across Trump world by Democrats.ImageRepresentative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, last year in Washington.CreditCreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesBy Nicholas FandosMarch 5, 2019WASHINGTON — President Trump dismissed on Tuesday an expansive document request by House Democrats scrutinizing whether he obstructed justice or abused power as nothing more than a political sideshow — and he suggested the White House might not cooperate.Citing 81 document request letters dispatched Monday to Trump associates by the House Judiciary Committee, the president called Democrats’ efforts “a disgrace to our country” and seemingly implied — incorrectly — that President Barack Obama refused to comply with Congress’s demands under similar circumstances.“Essentially what they are saying is the campaign begins,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Tuesday. “Instead of doing infrastructure, instead of doing health care, instead of doing so many things they should be doing, they want to play games.”Mr. Trump can instruct executive branch agencies to shield key evidence if he chooses. But it is unlikely that he alone can shake off the dragnet stretched across Trump world by Democrats, most systematically by the House Judiciary Committee this week. Detailed requests were made by the panel’s chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, not just to the White House and key government agencies, but to private companies and individuals tied to Mr. Trump’s businesses, campaign and administration. More will follow.[Read the 81 letters here.]Many of the people and entities have already told the Judiciary Committee that they will cooperate, meaning that the panel could soon begin reaping reams of evidence already in the hands of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and federal prosecutors in New York. Others will most likely do so under subpoena in time. A closer look at Mr. Nadler’s initial 81 targets — a mix of household names and bit players — reveals a web of lines of inquiry and overlapping interests. Here are some of the most noteworthy patterns.Going Through the Front Door: The GovernmentThe F.B.I., the Justice Department, the White House.In a sign that House investigators are not waiting for Mr. Mueller or federal prosecutors in New York to finish their work, Mr. Nadler asked the F.B.I. and the Justice Department on Monday to turn over vast tranches of information that they have already collected in the case. The terms were broad, asking for “all documents relating to” contacts between the Trump campaign and transition team and Russia, materials related to a June 2016 meeting with a Kremlin-connected lawyer promising dirt on Hillary Clinton, attempts by Mr. Trump to fire or otherwise retaliate against federal investigators, and potential emoluments by foreign or domestic governments to Trump entities, among nearly 30 other discrete topics. The committee is not explicitly investigating Russia’s election interference or possible cooperation with the Trump campaign — that will be left to the House Intelligence Committee. But Mr. Nadler appears to want that information to understand what Mr. Trump might have been trying to obstruct and why he was using his office to assail the courts and the Justice Department. A lengthy set of requests sent to the White House uses similar boilerplate language and asks for many of the same documents.The Inner Circle and the FamilyThe Trump Organization, the Trump Foundation, Donald Trump Jr., Eric Trump, Jared Kushner, Rhona Graff, Corey Lewandowski.ImageJared Kushner, left, Ivanka Trump, Lara Trump, Eric Trump, Donald Trump Jr. and Tiffany Trump last month during President Trump’s State of the Union address.CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesMr. Trump famously surrounds himself with a small group of family members and trusted associates who often provide his closest counsel. Mr. Nadler wants to talk to many of them, and, naturally, the reasons are long and varied.They include the president’s two adult sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, who were at Mr. Trump’s side when he made key business decisions during his campaign for office and during the transition into the White House. He also wants information from Jared Kushner, who is married to Mr. Trump’s eldest daughter, Ivanka Trump, and serves as a key White House adviser.There are others, too, though. Rhona Graff, Mr. Trump’s longtime executive assistant, was asked for key material related to dealings with foreign entities by the Trump Organization and the campaign, including the Trump Tower meeting. So was Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s former campaign manager and an informal adviser to his presidency.And Mr. Nadler also took detailed requests directly to the Trump Organization and the now-dissolved Trump Foundation.The Fixers Who Tried to Protect the CampaignMichael D. Cohen, David J. Pecker, American Media Inc., Donald Trump Jr., Donald J. Trump Revocable Trust, Allen Weisselberg, Ronald C. Lieberman, Matthew Calamari, Jared Kushner.ImageMichael D. Cohen testifying last week in Washington.CreditT.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York TimesMr. Nadler appears to be fishing widely for new information about hush money payments made during the 2016 campaign to bury the story of a pornographic film actress, Stormy Daniels, who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump. Mr. Nadler has sent exhaustive demands to at least four figures already known to be central to the scheme, which federal prosecutors have said violated campaign finance laws.Chief among them, of course, is Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer and longtime fixer, who arranged the payments and testified publicly last week before another House committee that Mr. Trump was a full participant in the effort. From Mr. Cohen, the committee wants all documents “relating to any payment, or discussions regarding any actual or potential payment” for the benefit of Mr. Trump or the campaign.The committee is seeking similar evidence from American Media Inc., the publisher of The National Enquirer, and its chairman, David J. Pecker, who worked with Mr. Cohen to buy Ms. Daniels’s silence in the waning weeks of the 2016 campaign. Allen Weisselberg, the chief financial officer of the Trump Organization who Mr. Cohen testified helped craft the illegal hush money scheme, was asked the same question, among a range of others about potential business dealings with Russia or other foreign powers.Potential Witnesses to Presidential ObstructionDonald F. McGahn II, Annie Donaldson, Hope Hicks, Sean Spicer, Jeff Sessions, Corey Lewandowski, Jay Sekulow, Thomas P. Bossert, Michael D. Cohen, Rick Gates, Paul Manafort, Michael T. Flynn, Stephen K. Bannon, Reince Priebus.ImageDonald F. McGahn II, then the White House counsel, last fall in the Cabinet Room.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesPotential obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump is of paramount importance to the Judiciary Committee, which twice in the past half-century has included obstruction in articles of impeachment against a president.Dozens of witnesses were asked about Mr. Trump’s reported attempts to attack or impede the investigation, but a half-dozen or so individuals are clearly people of interest. Chief among them is Donald F. McGahn II, Mr. Trump’s former White House counsel, who was at the president’s side during many of the episodes central to the Democratic argument that Mr. Trump tried to obstruct justice.The committee asked Mr. McGahn for documents related to the firing of James B. Comey as F.B.I. director; discussions about the recusal of Jeff Sessions, then the attorney general, from overseeing the Russia inquiry; and any attempts to fire Mr. Sessions, Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general overseeing the special counsel inquiry. Mr. Nadler also asked Mr. McGahn for documents related to possible pardon offers for Paul Manafort, Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman; Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser; and Mr. Cohen. He also asked for paperwork about public statements made about various interactions between Trump associates and Russia.Mr. Nadler sent similar questions to Annie Donaldson, Mr. McGahn’s deputy, who took exhaustive notes detailing Mr. Trump’s behavior in the West Wing in real time; Hope Hicks, a former White House communications director; Sean Spicer, the first Trump White House press secretary; Mr. Sessions; and Mr. Lewandowski.There were other topics, too. Mr. Nadler asked Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, for any drafts of a statement delivered by Mr. Cohen last year to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees about a Trump Tower project in Moscow. Mr. Cohen testified last week that Mr. Sekulow had been involved in preparing his testimony, which proved to be false and led Mr. Cohen to plead guilty to lying to Congress.The Foreigners and the Web They Might Have InfluencedAndrew Intrater, Erik Prince, Michael T. Flynn, Irakly Kaveladze, Thomas J. Barrack Jr., Tony Fabrizio, Viktor Vekselberg, Paul Erickson, George Nader, the Trump Inaugural Committee, the N.R.A., Matthew Calamari, Alan Garten, Ronald C. Lieberman.ImageMichael T. Flynn last summer in Washington.CreditSamuel Corum for The New York TimesMr. Nadler said publicly on Monday that his committee was keenly interested in the possibility of pay-to-play style corruption and possible violations of the Constitution’s emoluments clause, which bans public officials from receiving gifts from foreign governments. Mr. Trump’s businesses and his inaugural committee received document requests, and both appear to be at the center of this inquiry.The committee sent other requests to Viktor Vekselberg, a Russian oligarch who attended the inaugural festivities, and Andrew Intrater, whose firm hired Mr. Cohen on a $1 million consulting contract to help navigate Mr. Trump’s Washington. Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the chairman of the inaugural committee and another informal adviser to the president, was asked about contacts and possible financial support offered by foreign governments, including Middle East powers. Erik Prince, a private security contractor who arranged a 2016 meeting between Donald Trump Jr. and an emissary for two wealthy Arab princes, received a letter, as did the emissary, George Nader.Mr. Nadler queried Trump Organization executives — including Mr. Weisselberg, Matthew Calamari, Alan Garten and Ronald C. Lieberman — for documents related to any foreign or domestic government “discussing, offering, or providing, or being solicited to discuss, offer, or provide, any present or emolument of any kind” to Mr. Trump, his businesses, Mr. Kushner, his businesses and the inaugural committee.The committee requested similar information from the General Services Administration, which leases the Old Post Office building in downtown Washington to the Trump International Hotel.Julian Assange and the WikiLeaks CrowdWikiLeaks, Julian Assange, Roger J. Stone Jr., Jerome Corsi, Randy Credico, Sam Nunberg, Ted Malloch.ImageJulian Assange in 2017 at the Ecuadorean Embassy in London.CreditPeter Nicholls/ReutersWikiLeaks’ release of Democratic emails during the 2016 campaign does not appear to be of immediate concern to Mr. Nadler. Nor is it clear he will get voluntary cooperation.But Mr. Nadler has taken direct aim at the organization and its associates, anyway. He has requested from WikiLeaks itself and from its founder, Julian Assange, records of any communications with Mr. Trump’s campaign or associates and whether Mr. Assange has knowledge of communications between Trump associates and Russia.Mr. Nadler asked Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime Trump adviser who prosecutors said was dispatched by the campaign to get information from WikiLeaks, about his contacts with both. Cambridge Analytica and Claims of Voter ManipulationCambridge Analytica, the SCL Group, Alexander Nix, Brittany Kaiser, Julian D. Wheatland.ImageAlexander Nix, the former chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, in June 2018 in London. CreditTolga Akmen/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesCambridge Analytica, the now-defunct political data firm that worked for the Trump campaign during the 2016 presidential election, is also on the Judiciary Committee’s list. Along with Cambridge itself, the committee wants documents and emails from its parent company, the SCL Group, along with four of the firm’s former employees: Alexander Nix, its former chief executive; Brittany Kaiser, a former employee who has sought to cast herself as a whistle-blower since the firm imploded; and Julian D. Wheatland, the chairman of the SCL Group.The focus on Cambridge Analytica is not entirely clear. The political data firm last year became embroiled in a data-harvesting scandal after The New York Times and The Observer of London exposed how it harvested personal information from the Facebook profiles of up to 87 million people.The firm used the data to help build its so-called psychographic modeling techniques, which underpinned its work for the Trump campaign. Mr. Nix once called the practice “our secret sauce,” though some have questioned its effectiveness.Annie Karni and Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting.Nicholas Fandos is a reporter in the Washington bureau covering Congress.
@npfandos A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Detailed Request for Documents That Digs Deep Into Trump’s World. 

The Legend of Zion - The New York Times
Sports|The Legend of ZionImageCreditCreditIllustration by Sam Manchester/The New York Times; Photograph by Associated PressSectionsSkip to contentSkip to site indexThe Legend of ZionThe tales of Zion Williamson’s feats did not begin when he arrived at Duke. They probably won’t end there, either.CreditCreditIllustration by Sam Manchester/The New York Times; Photograph by Associated PressSupported byBy The New York TimesMarch 31, 2019Zion Williamson’s legend grows with every game these days, with each new thundering dunk and every stunning new feat of elevation. It has been this way for several years now, with Williamson the featured actor in a growing collection of viral clips that show a player with the skills to outrun almost anyone, to catch almost anything, to challenge almost anybody. Even his lowest moments — the sneaker that couldn’t hold him, the injured knee that cost him five games — have somehow morphed into highlights. But Williamson, an 18-year-old Duke freshman, has been making memorable moments for years. A group of New York Times reporters tracked down some of the people who were present for a few of them, to ask them about the memories that stand out the most.The Time the Recruiting Expert Got It WrongBy Kevin ArmstrongForgive Tom Konchalski.The publisher of High School Basketball Illustrated first observed Zion Williamson in person at the Elite 24, an all-star showcase for the nation’s top prep prospects, on Aug. 20, 2016. The court at Pier 2 in Brooklyn Bridge Park was the stage, and Williamson was 10 for 10 from the field, scored 23 points and shared most valuable player honors. Konchalski was impressed.To Konchalski’s well-trained eye — in five decades he had amassed an inventory of reports that stretched from Michael Jordan to LeBron James — Williamson, who had just turned 16, appeared to be an interior technician, a player at ease turning on his defender to make it to the rim for understated finishes. Because of Williamson’s body type, Konchalski considered him a left-handed Jamal Mashburn, a reference to the beefy Bronx product who played 11 seasons in the N.B.A.When Konchalski sat down at his typewriter after the Elite 24 to describe Williamson’s effort, he wrote that the “6-foot-5 junior Zion Williamson, the master of quiet domination, provided a bit of fresh air.”Looking back, Konchalski says now, he got it all wrong.“I’m wiping off copious amounts of egg from my face,” he said. Williamson, he knows, “is anything but quiet.” The Time They Wouldn’t Let LeBron in the DoorBy Adam ZagoriaThe first time LeBron James showed up to watch Zion Williamson, they wouldn’t let him in the door.It was July 2017, and James, once a transcendent teenage talent himself, went to see Williamson, the next big thing, at a showcase in Las Vegas. Williamson’s team, South Carolina Supreme, was playing Big Baller Brand, which featured LaMelo Ball, a brother of Lakers guard Lonzo Ball. It was, by summer youth basketball standards, a must-see event.James, of course, wasn’t the only one interested in that confluence of basketball stardust. The N.B.A. players Damian Lillard, Andrew Wiggins, Jamal Murray and Thon Maker were in the gym by the time James arrived, adding buzz to a crowd of more than 4,000 that threatened to swamp a court configured to hold less than half that many.Even in warm-ups, the excitement was palpable. The fans oohed and aahed as Williamson tossed balls high in the air and dunked them; many spectators held cellphones, the better to share video clips of a scene that was quickly called the “craziest A.A.U. game ever.” But James never saw any of it. With fans standing a dozen deep, nearly spilling onto the court from every direction, he and his group were told that just letting him into the gym constituted a security risk. A teenager’s mere presence, it seemed, had squeezed out basketball’s biggest star. James was told he couldn’t come in.“We shut him down,” an Adidas marketing executive told CBS Sports at the time. “The corners were 500 deep. That’s where it got insane.” It would be a year and a half before James got to see Williamson play in person. In February, he took a 35-minute flight from Philadelphia to Charlottesville, Va., and watched from courtside as Williamson, playing for Duke, went for 18 points, 5 rebounds and 5 assists in a win against Virginia. Williamson’s athleticism, James declared, was “ridiculous.” The Time a Low Pass Turned Into a Windmill DunkBy David WaldsteinBishop Richardson was averaging about three alley-oop assists to Williamson every game when their team, Spartanburg (S.C.) Day School, arrived at Ben Lippen School in Columbia, S.C., for a game during Williamson’s junior year. Williamson dunked a lot back then, and he had recorded at least two slams in the first half that had the gym rocking. “I remember it vividly,” Williamson said last week. “Their student section was really into the game, talking a lot.”The real highlight, though, was still to come. With Spartanburg ahead by 39 points, Richardson, a spindly guard who had played varsity since the eighth grade, found himself jogging easily up the right sideline when he spotted Williamson closing menacingly down the other side of the court. He tried another lob; he knew the pass didn’t have to be perfect.“If you threw it anywhere near the rim,” Richardson said, “he was going to get it.” On this occasion, Richardson’s toss arrived well below the rim. But that enabled Williamson to do something outrageous: He rose into the air, reached out with two hands to grab the incoming pass at about shoulder height, and — still rising, now high enough to peer inside the rim he was about to shake — used one sweeping, circular motion to bring the ball down to his waist and then back up to the left side of his body before ramming it through the basket with his left hand.The crowd erupted. “I remember thinking, ‘Holy cow, I’ve never seen anyone do anything like that, let alone be a part of it,’” Richardson said. “People were falling out of the bleachers.”The dunk made it onto highlight reels and national sports shows within hours, but Richardson did not see a replay until the next day, when he and teammates sneaked a peek in a study hall.“I wish I could take credit for it,” Richardson said, “but it was completely accidental.” The Time His Vertical Leap Was Off the ChartsBy Marc TracyVertical leap is measured using a simple contraption: a tall pole with a series of long, metal fingers that project horizontally from it on top of one another — narrow wings stacked up, up, up, at consistent increments. It may seem lo-fi, but it is also foolproof: Your vertical reach while jumping is the highest metal flange you are able to bat away from its set position. Subtract standing vertical reach from that number, and you have a player’s vertical leap. When Duke put its players through the test one day last summer, Zion Williamson’s vertical leap was measured at 46 inches. But to the teammates and Duke staff members who were present, mere numbers do not do the moment justice.“We were all in shock,” the sophomore guard Alex O’Connell said. Williamson, who went last, was off the charts. On his first attempt, he casually swatted aside the highest measurement. A staff member adjusted the pole to its highest setting and reset the tabs, and Williamson repeated the feat. They put weights under the contraption to lift it a few more inches into the air. Williamson batted the highest measurements aside again. “It was something you don't see a lot, especially with a guy who is built like him flying through the air,” forward Javin DeLaurier said. “It's a sight to behold.”Nolan Smith, an assistant coach who played for four years at Duke and several more in the N.B.A. and Europe, said he had never seen anything like it. Cam Reddish, another Blue Devils’ freshman, said he missed out; he said he was in another part of the building when Williamson tested the test itself. “I just heard that he broke the record,” Reddish said. “Zion things.”The Time Zion Uncorked a Frighteningly Casual 360 By Kevin DraperIn the beginning, the former Duke standout Jay Williams kept track of the Williamson hype the same way everybody else did: through low-quality video clips shot in high school gyms and then posted on the internet. Williamson’s high-flying plays quickly became “the eighth wonder of the world,” Williams said.Then he saw him in person. “I have never seen a player casually do a 360 in a game,” Williams said of seeing Williamson do precisely that in a game against Clemson this season. “Even when you saw Vince do it in college,” he said, referring to Vince Carter, who played at the University of North Carolina, “there was a level of oomph that he needed to exert that type of energy. My man casually did it in the game. He did a 360 like I would do a layup.”Williams said plays like that one were the reason comparing Williamson to other basketball players is a mistake. “To me, I was looking at a football player who had the finesse of basketball ability,” he said. “I’ve never seen that before. I played against Julius Peppers in college. I remember him being the only guy Carlos Boozer was somewhat intimidated to go against because he couldn’t just move him around. I remember thinking for the first time: ‘Oh, I was looking at Julius Peppers but through a basketball lens. What? What?’ Julius was agile, but I am talking about the frame of the body. It reminded me of a linebacker or a tight end. Just different.” The Time Zion Blew Out His SneakerBy Joe Drape and Marc TracySpike Lee was in his seat and Barack Obama was settled in his, down past the end of the Duke bench. But in front of North Carolina’s Luke Maye — in the space where Zion Williamson had stood a moment earlier — there was suddenly … nothing. “I didn’t hear anything, man,” Maye said Thursday. What everyone quickly realized was that the story had quickly changed from a heated rivalry game — top-ranked Duke vs. No. 8 North Carolina — into something far more bizarre: Williamson’s Nike sneaker had broken apart as he made a move at the free-throw line. He was down. North Carolina was racing upcourt. And everyone else was asking: What just happened? Maye, in that moment, had the best seat in the house. “I just took the ball,” he said, “and just started going.”Initially, the Blue Devils were just as confused. The first thing Duke’s Javin DeLaurier saw from his spot on the bench was the sneaker on Williamson’s left foot, or what was left of it, anyway: Its sole was flapping free, like a banner in the wind.To DeLaurier, this counted as good news.“I was like, ‘Oh, no, it’s just his shoe,’” he said. “There was a sigh of relief.”He had, after all, seen this before. He had blown out a shoe before. He had seen Williamson do it, too. “Zion’s a big human being, moving pretty fast, changing direction,” DeLaurier said. “It happens.”The Time Zion Blocked a Shot From Out of NowhereBy David Waldstein“I consider it my fault,” De’Andre Hunter says now.He’s not wrong. Late in a February game at Virginia, Cavaliers guard Kyle Guy whipped the ball crosscourt to his teammate De’Andre Hunter, who waited at the 3-point line, deep in the corner, and without a Duke player within 15 feet of him. Williamson was on the left side of the court, playing his usual feisty, active defense, so Hunter, in the right corner, took his time uncoiling the 3-point attempt.Williamson, though, had closed the gap by then. Soaring across the court with five quick steps, he took off from about six feet away just as Hunter unloaded. “I consider it my fault,” Hunter said. “I took way too long setting it up and releasing the shot. But he came a long way.” In fact, Williamson jumped so high and stretched so vertically that his right hand was well above the height of the 10-foot rim when he cleanly swatted Hunter’s shot into the stands. “He just came out of nowhere,” Hunter said. Worse news, at least for Hunter, was that the clip made its way to ESPN’s “SportsCenter” and other highlight shows, and it is now a staple of the Williamson YouTube filmography. “I didn’t know it was going to be such a big deal,” Hunter said recently.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page SP1 of the New York edition with the headline: Superman Holds Court. 

Upper East Side Salon Under Investigation for Racial Discrimination - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexStyleSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperStyle|Upper East Side Salon Under Investigation for Racial DiscriminationAdvertisementSupported byUpper East Side Salon Under Investigation for Racial DiscriminationNew York City is reviewing complaints from former employees at Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger who say their hair was deemed inappropriate for work.ImageA client getting her hair washed at Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.CreditCreditBenjamin Norman for The New York TimesBy Stacey StoweFeb. 23, 2019Former workers at a luxury Upper East Side hair salon that is under investigation for racial discrimination said this week that they were told by the management there that Afros and box-braided hairstyles did not reflect the upscale image of the neighborhood.Three women who worked as receptionists and are black, and three other former employees who are white, said a salon dress code was put into effect in recent years that discouraged hairstyles associated with black culture, and was not uniformly applied to all employees. One woman said she was fired for objecting to those rules.The salon, Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger, is located on the top two floors of an elegant townhouse on East 71st Street and is a favorite with celebrities like Meg Ryan and Kate Hudson. Ms. Hershberger, 58, known for her $1,000 haircuts and “24K” hair products in gold-trimmed black packaging, has tended personally to Michelle Obama and Hillary Clinton. Ms. Dorram, 59, a colorist, has a client roster that includes Christie Brinkley and Renée Zellweger. The former workers at the salon spoke to The Times following news that New York City would ban discrimination based on hair. The change in law, which will be enforced by New York City’s human rights commission, applies to anyone targeted at work, school or a public place. It is aimed in particular at remedying unfair treatment of black people; the guidelines specifically mention the right of New Yorkers to maintain their “natural hair, treated or untreated hairstyles such as locs, cornrows, twists, braids, Bantu knots, fades, Afros, and/or the right to keep hair in an uncut or untrimmed state.”Between 2016 and 2018, four complaints were filed to New York City’s human rights commission about the management and one senior stylist at Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger. The resulting investigation into the salon led, in part, to the announcement last week of the city’s ban on discrimination based on hair.The first complaint was filed in July 2016 by a former general manager who is white and said he felt sickened by being asked to implement an employee hair policy that he said was applied more to black workers than white ones. The second complaint was filed in December 2016 by a former receptionist, who is black and said she was a target of racial discrimination.Two other complaints were filed in June 2018. One was from a former receptionist who is Hispanic and claimed she was asked to steer clients away from stylists who refused to sign a document attesting to the fairness of the salon’s dress code. The document, she said, stated that the dress code was longstanding and applied equally to black and white workers. (The fourth complaint was filed by a white stylist who said he was called an anti-Semitic slur and had his career threatened when he sought legal counsel. The complaints from 2018 were first reported by the New York Post.)Interviewed at the salon on Wednesday, Ms. Dorram refused to address specific details of the complaints because the investigation is still open but said, “None of it is true.” Ms. Hershberger, an owner of the salon with Ms. Dorram and Steven Tuttleman, a financier, also denied being involved in any racial discrimination. (As co-owners, all three are named as respondents in the investigation complaints.)Five former employees at Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger, and a lawyer for two others, described to this reporter a racially charged atmosphere that was particularly tense during the summer of 2015. That August, the dress code was disseminated verbally. Along with reminding employees that clothing should be black and that bluejeans, ripped clothing and nose rings were forbidden, it required shoulder-length hair to be pulled up or back.David Speer, the former general manager and the first individual to file a complaint with the city, said that it was only after he hired three black women — Taren Guy, Raelene Roberts and Regine Aubourg — to work as receptionists that Ms. Dorram asked him to create a dress code. Mr. Speer, who worked at the salon for six years beginning in 2009, said there had been several negative comments from Ms. Dorram and a senior stylist about the women’s hair. In one text message he shared from August 17, 2015, Ms. Dorram said to him:“Today looked awful. Rail yne (sic) had her dreads down; Regine just got hers to match as long and of course Tarren (sic) All 3 at desk and we look like we should be on E. 134th Street. Sorry, nor(sic) racist just telling you we are on Mad. and 71st.”Mr. Speer, who said he had made clear he found these statements offensive, replied by text, “And Madison can never be black. Is that right?” Ms. Dorram responded to him saying that he was “missing the point.”Another text message sent on the same day from Ms. Dorram to Mr. Speer said:“Can’t be 3 girls at the desk. 2 like this and 1 w/ big Afro. What is our image Please instruct them not to wear hair down and no nose rings”In a sworn statement submitted as evidence to the human rights commission, Erica Ocasio, a receptionist at the salon for two years beginning in 2013, wrote that Ms. Dorram told her: “We didn’t create this new rule because of you. You look beautiful with your hair down. It’s the other girls. Their hair looks disgusting.”Ms. Ocasio, 28, who is Puerto Rican, said in an interview this week that she quit her job at the salon because she felt the hair-up rule was racist.Ms. Roberts, 29, said Ms. Dorram once looked at her and said, “What are we going to do about your hair?” After the hair-up rule was issued, Ms. Roberts said she wore a wig to avoid the time-consuming blow-drying that would be necessary to straighten her hair. “But I was told not to wear it,” she said. “The next day, I blew out my hair straight and they liked that.” (She noted that with the summer humidity, it was hard to keep it that way.) Ms. Roberts said that if white employees wore their hair down, “no one said anything.” She quit in May 2016 and filed a complaint several months later in December.Ms. Guy, 35, quit the day the employee hair policy was introduced, giving two weeks notice on August 24, 2015. By phone this week, she said no one ever criticized her hair to her face but that co-workers relayed negative comments they had heard from management about her Afro. Ms. Guy described the policy of mandating ponytails and buns as “a cop-out.” She said: “They were trying to figure out a way to have me not wear my hair like this,” referring to her Afro.Ms. Aubourg, 26, also quit shortly after the rules were introduced, about a year after she was hired. When she started at the salon in October 2014, Ms. Aubourg wore her hair in a weave and it was straight. But later that year, after she came back from vacation with box braids, a senior stylist, Tim Lehman, didn’t approve, she said.“He said, ‘Your hair is ugly,’” Ms. Aubourg said this week. She said she quit in September 2015: “I did not file a complaint. I just wanted to be done.” Mr. Lehman did not reply to repeated requests for comment.Ms. Dorram vehemently denied that the employee hair policy was racially motivated and said the text messages were mischaracterized. She also said she offered Ms. Roberts a promotion and a raise and claimed that after Ms. Roberts quit, she would return to the salon for blowouts. Ms. Dorram stood by her insistence that her employees groom themselves in keeping with the more “traditional” atmosphere of an Upper East Side salon. Her comments, she said, were intended to establish that the location and clientele of the salon leans toward “classic” in a stylistic sense, rather than edgy.“We’re not 8th Street,” she said. “We’re not downtown.”“We’re the United Nations here,” Ms. Dorram said, gesturing toward a fifth-floor nook with a view of copper roof topped-town houses, decorated with orchids and a circular settee. “I have every nationality, every skin color. I’m a Jew who was married to an Arab and a German. I am not racist. I am not a bigot. This is my house.” She later added that she was the daughter of Holocaust survivors.In an email statement, Ms. Hershberger’s spokeswoman, Samira Shamoon said:“Sally Hershberger is 100% against racist discrimination and all other types of discrimination in the workplace and beyond.”On Wednesday, Mr. Tuttleman said he was unaware of the details of the allegations. He described himself as a “silent partner,” who is not involved in the daily operations of the salon. “Of course, I don’t condone racial discrimination at all and never would support it in any capacity,” he said.Mr. Speer, the general manager, shared emails with the Times that he sent to Ms. Hershberger and Mr. Tuttleman in August of 2015 informing them that he was resigning because he refused to enforce dress code policies.“I do not see anything wrong with having a style code — but it must be inclusive, respectful, and leave room for people of color, in this instance, African Americans,” he wrote. “When I voiced concerns, I was told that if I couldn’t be supportive, I should leave.”The next day, Mr. Speer said, Ms. Hershberger offered him a job at her downtown salon. (That offer was later rescinded, according to two emails shared by Mr. Speer.)Ingrid Sandoval, who is Hispanic and worked on and off as a receptionist between 2015 and 2017, filed another of the complaints, according to her lawyer, Patrick Boyd. In the spring of 2017, he said, stylists at the salon were asked, and in some cases “pressured,” to sign a statement asserting that the employee hair policy — which had been emailed to employees in February of that year — was longstanding and applied to everyone, regardless of race. On May 4, 2017, Ms. Sandoval and other receptionists were told by the manager at the time, Linda Sabky, not to book clients for those stylists who refused to sign the statement. Ms. Sandoval refused, Mr. Boyd said. She was fired in October 2017. Ms. Sabky could not be reached for comment.Sharon Dorram Color at Sally Hershberger is one of four businesses under investigation by the city’s human rights commission for racial discrimination based on hair. (The others businesses, whose names have not been revealed, are a medical facility and a nonprofit in the Bronx, and a restaurant in Queens.) Alicia McCauley, a spokeswoman for the commission, declined to comment on the complaints.The salon’s dress code was “protocol,” Ms. Dorram said. “It’s what clients will expect.”“We need to look good,” she said. “If you have long hair, if you can sit on your hair, that’s not professional-looking.”On Wednesday, Ms. Guy recalled that in her time at the salon, clients reacted positively to her look. “They would be in awe of my Afro and say, ‘Oh my god, your hair — it’s so beautiful,” said Ms. Guy, who now has an online holistic and wellness company. “I wish my hair could look like that.’”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Dress Code Divides a Hair Salon. 

John Dingell Jr., a House ‘Bull’ Who Served the Longest, Is Dead at 92 - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexPoliticsSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperPolitics|John Dingell Jr., a House ‘Bull’ Who Served the Longest, Is Dead at 92AdvertisementSupported byJohn Dingell Jr., a House ‘Bull’ Who Served the Longest, Is Dead at 92ImageRepresentative John Dingell of Michigan in 2014. When he announced, at age 87, that he would not seek re-election to the House that year, he said he no longer recognized the institution he loved.CreditCreditLauren Victoria Burke/Associated PressBy Keith Schneider and Katharine Q. SeelyeFeb. 7, 2019John D. Dingell Jr., a powerful and tenacious Michigan Democrat who pushed landmark legislation, exposed corruption in government and became the longest-serving member of Congress in American history, died on Thursday at his home in Dearborn, Mich. He was 92.His wife, Representative Debbie Dingell, announced the death in a statement. She won election to his seat after Mr. Dingell, at 87, announced his retirement in 2014. She said this week that she was remaining at home with her husband, whose health had been failing. He had been under treatment for prostate cancer.Mr. Dingell (pronounced DING-gull) had represented what is now Michigan’s 12th district, outside Detroit, since the Eisenhower administration, a 59-year run. But when he announced that he would not seek re-election, he said he was stepping down because he no longer recognized the institution he loved. Bitter partisanship, he said, was preventing the House from getting anything done. “I find serving in the House to be obnoxious,” he told The Detroit News.Mr. Dingell, physically imposing at 6-foot-3 and 200 pounds and intimidating many with his booming voice, was one of the last of the old bulls, a cadre of powerful Democratic House committee chairmen who had risen through the seniority system to wield absolute control of their fiefs. Like the other old bulls, he used his position to protect his hometown interests — in his case, the automobile industry. Some called him the most powerful man in Washington who had never become president.He joined the House on Dec. 13, 1955, filling the seat of his father, John Dingell Sr., who was first elected in 1932 and died in office after serving 22 years. With Ms. Dingell now occupying the seat, someone in the Dingell family has represented southeast Michigan for almost 90 years.VideoJohn D. Dingell Jr., a Michigan Democrat, became the longest-serving member of Congress in American history in 2013. That year, he sat down with The New York Times and discussed his years in U.S. politics.CreditCreditJ. Scott Applewhite/Associated PressJohn Dingell Jr. became the longest-serving House member in February 2009, surpassing the record set in the early 1990s by Jamie L. Whitten, a Mississippi Democrat. He became the longest-tenured member in the history of all of Congress on June 7, 2013, when he passed the record set by Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, who died in office in 2010.“The story of John Dingell in Congress is the story of the hopes and dreams of the American people for the past 50 years,” former Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said in a statement in 2005 honoring his friend and colleague. “John fought to pass Medicare — and he won. He fought to pass Medicaid — and he won. He fought for civil rights — and he won. He fought for the Endangered Species Act and the Clean Air Act — and he won.”Tenacity was indeed a hallmark of Mr. Dingell’s political career, as was a forcefulness that earned him admirers as well as critics.When he was chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee from 1981 to 1995, and again after the 2006 election put Democrats back in power, his unusually vast portfolio allowed him to shape policy affecting energy, the environment, health, telecommunications, transportation, financial services and consumer protection.The committee handled nearly half of all bills before the House each year.His influence was magnified because at the same time, he was chairman of the committee’s oversight and investigations subcommittee, and it was from this perch that he made his true mark.ImageClockwise from top, Representative John Dingell of Michigan in 2014, when he announced, at age 87, that he would not seek re-election to the House that year. Mr. Dingell in 2003 and Mr. Dingell campaigning in Michigan in 1964.xCreditDingell Family/Associated PressWith prosecutorial zeal, he would fire off “Dingell-grams” to government agencies he was investigating. He also could issue subpoenas and hold hearings, and he exercised that power to maximum effectAmong his achievements were enhancing the safety of blood banks, bottled water and pacemakers and exposing waste, fraud and abuse throughout the federal government.In the early 1980s, his committee uncovered slack procurement procedures at the Pentagon, including its payment of $640 for a toilet seat. It also confirmed allegations of conflicts of interest within the Environmental Protection Agency, forcing the resignation of Anne Gorsuch Burford, President Ronald Reagan’s first E.P.A. administrator.Mr. Dingell’s inquiries led to the criminal conviction of, among others, Michael K. Deaver, one of President Reagan’s top advisers, for lying under oath regarding Mr. Deaver’s lobbying activities after he left the White House.The committee also exposed General Dynamics, a major Pentagon contractor, for giving thousands of dollars worth of gifts to prominent military figures, including $67,000 in gifts to Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, the father of the nuclear Navy.ImageMr. Dingell in 2003. He advocated for bailouts of General Motors and Chrysler and long staved off calls for tougher emission and fuel efficiency standards.CreditEvan Vucci, Associated PressMr. Dingell’s reach — some called it overreach — extended to the scientific community, and he was sometimes accused of acting as “the science police.” His aggressive tactics unsettled many in Washington, and not all of his investigations were successful.In the early 1990s, Mr. Dingell engaged in an epic battle with David Baltimore, a Nobel laureate, over allegations of faked research in a paper that Dr. Baltimore had co-written. Dr. Baltimore was not accused of fraud but of misplaced loyalty to his co-author, and the controversy forced him to resign as president of Rockefeller University in 1991. In 1996 he was vindicated by an appeals board at the National Institutes of Health; the scientific community widely agreed that the paper contained errors, but that it had not been intentionally fraudulent. Bernadine Healy, then the director of the N.I.H., was among those who dared to chastise Mr. Dingell publicly, accusing him of using his “virtually unchecked power to investigate, prosecute and judge” his targets while running roughshod over due process. The Washington Post editorialized that “congressional chivvying of this kind,” with Mr. Dingell appearing “to be persecuting Dr. Baltimore for no purpose,” would not bring about constructive change.Back in Michigan, Mr. Dingell served the politically disparate needs of his district, which spanned the blue-collar, Roman Catholic neighborhoods of autoworkers in Monroe and Wayne Counties and the tony neighborhoods surrounding the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. The district was almost all white and heavily Polish (as was Mr. Dingell’s grandfather, who changed the family name from Dzieglewicz).An avid hunter — he kept fish and game trophies in his office, including that of a 500-pound boar he reportedly killed with only a pistol — Mr. Dingell defended the right to bear arms and received an A+ rating from the National Rifle Association, of which he was a member. This put him at odds with many Democrats, particularly gun-control advocates from urban areas like Detroit, but hunting was important to his working-class constituents.John Dingell, the Longest-Serving Member of Congress14 PhotosView Slide Show ›ImageStephen Crowley/The New York TimesSimilarly, he supported the Vietnam War until 1971, after many Democrats had stopped. And his voting record was largely anti-abortion, with the abortion rights group Naral giving him a 30 percent rating in 2012.At the same time, Mr. Dingell appeased some liberals by supporting civil rights legislation, though he opposed expanding school desegregation to Detroit suburbs via mandatory busing. He supported equal rights for women and some environmental measures.But his chief constituency was the auto industry, and Mr. Dingell was among its most stalwart champions. He viewed taking care of the industry as one of his primary legislative responsibilities. He advocated bailouts of General Motors and Chrysler and long staved off calls for tougher emissions and fuel economy standards.“I am totally unapologetic about that,” he told The New York Times in 1991. “I represent half a million people whose lives are controlled by the good fortune or bad fortune of the auto industry. I was sent down here to look after the welfare of that district and the people I serve.”The industry contributed substantially to his re-election campaigns. And he and his wife accumulated millions in General Motors holdings in the early 2000s through her affiliation with the company — she was an heir to the Fisher brothers, who founded the Fisher Body company and later sold it to General Motors, and for many years a GM lobbyist.ImageMr. Dingell with Speaker Nancy Pelosi after the passage of the Energy Independence and Security Act in 2007. Mr. Dingell was the longtime chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.CreditStephen Crowley/The New York TimesThis coziness with the industry played a role in his losing the chairmanship of the energy committee: In a devastating defeat for Mr. Dingell, a younger colleague, Representative Henry Waxman of California, toppled him in 2008. Opponents had argued that Mr. Dingell, then 82, was too protective of the industry and moving too slowly on related issues like climate change.Still, Mr. Dingell had a strong record on other environmental matters. The League of Conservation Voters and other environmental organizations credited him with helping to pass the 1964 Wilderness Act, the 1969 National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts of the 1970s, the 1980 Superfund law, statutes protecting marine mammals and bans on ocean dumping. (The Clean Air Act was passed only after Mr. Dingell had bottled it up for 10 years.)“I’ve gotten more legislation passed on conservation and the environment than anybody else in this place,” Mr. Dingell boasted in an interview with The New York Times in 2007. “I know how to build legislation from the center.”John David Dingell Jr. was born on July 8, 1926, in Colorado Springs, where his parents had gone to search for a cure for his father’s tuberculosis. They soon moved back to Michigan, and John Sr. won his House seat. His wife, Grace (Bigler) Dingell, raised John Jr. and his siblings in Detroit and Washington.John Jr. spent much of his childhood and teenage years on Capitol Hill, serving five years, from 1938 to 1943, as a House page. He was on the House floor on Dec. 8, 1941, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt told a joint session of Congress that the day before, when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, was “a date which will live in infamy.”ImageMr. Dingell, on crutches, after the House passed health care reform legislation in 2010. His father had helped introduce the first national health insurance bill, which never passed, in 1943.CreditChip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesWhen he turned 18, Mr. Dingell joined the Army in 1944; he rose to second lieutenant. The following year he was supposed to be in the first wave of soldiers in Japan. “I had my orders to go when Truman dropped the bomb on the Japanese, and that ended World War II,” he said in a 2006 oral interview with the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate.Back in Washington, Mr. Dingell earned an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Georgetown University and a law degree from Georgetown Law School, graduating in 1952. He worked as a forest ranger, a Wayne County prosecutor and briefly as a private lawyer before winning his father’s congressional seat, in what was then the 15th District, when he was 29.Mr. Dingell’s first marriage, to Helen Henebry in 1952, ended in divorce two decades later. In 1981, he married Deborah Insley.In addition to his wife, he is survived by three children from his first marriage: Christopher D. Dingell, a former state senator and Michigan circuit court judge; John D. Dingell III; and Jennifer Dingell. His daughter Jeanne Lagodka died in 2015. He is also survived by a brother, James V. Dingell Sr.; a sister, Jule Walowac; and three grandchildren.Among the many causes he promoted, Mr. Dingell was especially proud of his work on health care. This stemmed from his father’s efforts to help introduce the first national health insurance bill in 1943. It never passed.When John Dingell Jr. took his father’s seat, he continued that quest for national health insurance. On the first day of each new Congress, Mr. Dingell introduced a bill to create a Medicare program to provide health insurance for older adults, as his father had sought. When Medicare finally came up for a vote in 1965, Mr. Dingell was given the gavel and the honor, in memory of his father, of presiding over the House.“America was built on the shoulders of great leaders like John Dingell,” former Secretary of State James A. Baker said in a statement, adding, “No one fought harder for their constituents or causes than the Big Truck, as John was known. But although he was a partisan Democrat and I am a partisan Republican, the two of us shared a genuine friendship based on our mutual love of country, politics and hunting.”Former President Barack Obama recalled Mr. Dingell’s push for universal health care. “Because of him,” he said in a statement on Thursday night, “we’ve come closer to that vision than ever before. And when we finally achieve it — and we will — we’ll all owe him our gratitude.”Correction: Feb. 11, 2019An earlier version of this obituary referred incorrectly to the Fisher brothers, of whom Mr. Dingell’s wife, Representative Debbie Dingell, was an heir. They founded the Fisher Body company and later sold it to General Motors; they were not the founders of General Motors.Correction: March 5, 2019An earlier version of this obituary misstated how much money the House Energy and Commerce Committee, of which Mr. Dingell was chairman at the time, determined Stanford University had overcharged the government for indirect research costs. A settlement was reached with the university under which Stanford agreed to repay a little more than $3 million and the government agreed to drop any additional claims against it; it was not the case that the committee found that the university had overcharged the government by “tens of millions of dollars.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D8 of the New York edition with the headline: John Dingell Jr., a Power in Congress With the Longest Tenure, Dies at 92. 

Maria Popova: By the Book - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexBook ReviewSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperBook Review|Maria Popova: By the BookAdvertisementSupported byBy the BookMaria Popova: By the BookImageMaria PopovaCreditCreditIllustration by Jillian TamakiFeb. 7, 2019The author of “Figuring” (and the brain behind the Brain Pickings website) likes how children’s books speak “a language of absolute sincerity, so deliciously countercultural in our age of cynicism.”What books are on your nightstand?I don’t have a nightstand per se — my bedroom is rather ascetic, with only a bed nestled between the constellation-painted walls. I do tend to keep a rotating selection of longtime favorites near or in it, to dip into before sleep — “The Little Prince” (which I reread at least once a year every year, and somehow find new wisdom and pertinence to whatever I am going through at the moment), “The Lives of the Heart,” by Jane Hirshfield, “Hope in the Dark,” by Rebecca Solnit, Thoreau’s diaries, “How the Universe Got Its Spots,” by Janna Levin. Of the piles that inevitably accumulate in every room of my house, friends’ books I have recently read and loved tower nearest the bed — part synonym and part antonym to the lovely Japanese concept of tsundoku, the guilt-pile of books acquired with the intention of reading but left unread. Currently among my anti-tsundoku: “Time Travel,” by James Gleick, “Searching for Stars on an Island in Maine,” by Alan Lightman, “Little Panic,” by Amanda Stern, “Inheritance,” by Dani Shapiro, and an exhibition catalog — which, in her case, is part poetry and part philosophy — by Ann Hamilton.What’s the last great book you read?I read multiple books each week and have no qualms about abandoning what fails to captivate me, so I tend to love just about everything I finish. At this particular moment, I am completely smitten with Jill Lepore’s history of America — what a rare masterwork of rigorous scholarship with a poetic sensibility — but I am barely a quarter through, so I’d be cheating if I counted it as read.I only recently discovered, and absolutely loved, “The Living Mountain,” by the Scottish mountaineer and poet Nan Shepherd — part memoir, part field notebook, part lyrical meditation on nature and our relationship with it, evocative of Rachel Carson and Henry Beston and John Muir. Shepherd composed it sometime around World War II, but kept it in a drawer for nearly four decades, until the final years of her life. Decades after her death, her work — much of it by then out of print — was rediscovered and championed by Robert Macfarlane, a splendid nature writer himself.Are there any classic novels that you only recently read for the first time?Toni Morrison’s “Beloved.” I am filled with disbelief bordering on shame that I went this long without it. A book that gives the English language back to itself and your conscience back to itself.Do your blog posts grow out of whatever you happen to be reading at the time? Or do you pick books specifically with Brain Pickings in mind?I don’t see my website as a separate entity or any sort of media outlet — it is the record and reflection of my inner life, my discourse with ideas and questions through literature, my extended marginalia. It is a “blog” in the proper sense — a “web log,” part commonplace book and part ledger of a life. Nothing on it is composed for an audience. I write about what I read, and I read to process what I dwell in, mentally and emotionally. The wondrous thing about being human — the beauty and banality of it — is that we all tend to dwell in the same handful of elemental struggles, joys and sorrows, which is why a book one person writes may help another process her own life a century later, and why a “blog” by a solitary stranger may speak to many other solitary dwellers across time and space.What moves you most in a work of literature?Rhythm, texture, splendor of sentiment in language, unsentimental soulfulness.Which genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid?I read mostly nonfiction and poetry. But I also don’t believe in genre as a defining feature of substance. Ursula K. Le Guin’s fantasy is animated by rich moral philosophy. Alison Bechdel’s graphic novel “Are You My Mother?” is replete with more insight into the human psyche than most books in the psychology section of the bookstore. Great children’s books speak to the most elemental truths of existence, and speak in the language of children — a language of absolute sincerity, so deliciously countercultural in our age of cynicism.How do you organize your books?My children’s book library is organized by color, everything else by subject and substance first — science, poetry, biographies and autobiographies, diaries and letters, etc. — then within each section, by color. I break the color system for multiple books by the same author on related subjects — amid several Oliver Sacks volumes huddled together, “Hallucinations” beams from the solemn science shelf with its cheerful seizure of cyan.What’s the best book you’ve ever received as a gift?My good friend and collaborator Claudia Bedrick, founder of the visionary Enchanted Lion Books, gave me a trilingual pop-up book titled “Little Tree,” by the Japanese graphic designer and book artist Katsumi Komagata — a subtle, stunning meditation on mortality through the life-cycle of a single tree, inspired by a young child struggling to make sense of a beloved father’s death — one of the artist’s close friends. I have a deep love of trees — they have been among my wisest teachers — and recently returned to this book while spending time with one of my own dear friends in the final weeks of her life.Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine? Your favorite antihero or villain?Orlando. It is hard not to fall in love with a beautiful, brilliant creature who changes genders while galloping across three centuries on a pair of “the shapeliest legs” in the land. It is hard not to fall in love with Virginia Woolf’s love for Vita Sackville-West, on whom Orlando is modeled and to whom the book is dedicated. Vita’s son later described the novel as “the longest and most charming love letter in literature.”In a sense, Orlando is also an antihero in the drama of Woolf’s oppressive heteronormative society — a subversion, a counterpoint to convention, a sentinel of the resistance. A month after the book’s publication, the novelist Radclyffe Hall was tried for obscenity — the same half-coded charge of homosexuality for which Oscar Wilde had been imprisoned a generation earlier — and all printed copies of her lesbian novel “The Well of Loneliness” were destroyed by court order. In response to the trial, Woolf and E. M. Forster wrote in a joint letter of protest: “Writers produce literature, and they cannot produce great literature until they have free minds. The free mind has access to all knowledge and speculation of its age, and nothing cramps it like a taboo.”What kind of reader were you as a child? Which childhood books and authors stick with you most?I don’t recall being much of a natural reader early on, but my paternal grandmother made me one. She read me old European fairy tales — Hans Christian Andersen, the uncandied Brothers Grimm. (In the communist Bulgaria of my childhood, the classics of American children’s literature were barred by the Iron Curtain.) I especially loved “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland,” long before I could fully appreciate the allegorical genius of a brilliant logician. I was awed by my grandmother’s enormous library and was particularly enchanted by the encyclopedias, the way you could pull one out and open to a random page and learn about something thrilling you didn’t even know existed. It is an experience we rarely have anymore in a culture where pointed search has eclipsed serendipitous discovery, leading us to find more and more of what we are already interested in. In a sense, this encyclopedic enchantment and the delight of unbidden discovery have stayed with me and become the backbone of Brain Pickings.What’s the most interesting thing you learned from a book recently?From the fantastic new biography of Benjamin Rush by Stephen Fried — my first and foremost writing mentor, whose research intern I was what seems like a lifetime ago, and was even paid two subway tokens per week for the pleasure — I learned that we owe to this “footnoted founder” our formative understanding of mental illness and the then-radical notion that mentally ill people are still people. A century before Nellie Bly’s paradigm-shifting exposé “Ten Days in a Madhouse,” at a time when mental asylum patients were chained to the floor until they “improved,” Rush insisted that their humanity and dignity must be honored in treatment, and pioneered forms of psychiatric care closely resembling the modern. This radical, largehearted reformer was decades, perhaps centuries ahead of his time along so many axes of progress: He became the nation’s pre-eminent champion of public health and public schooling, founded the country’s first rural college, railed against racism, helped African-American clergymen establish two of the nation’s first churches for black congregations, and pushed to extend education to women, African-Americans and non-English-speaking immigrants. (He also penned the most devastating and delightful rant against materialism, condemning America as “a bebanked, and a bewhiskied & a bedollared nation.” I wonder how he would have framed the unfathomable notion that his nation would one day be governed by a billionaire who deals in golf courses, stars in his own reality TV show and bankrolls the business of hate.)If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?I am resisting the cheap impulse to simply say, “Any.” Instead, I’d say Hannah Arendt’s “The Origins of Totalitarianism,” but there is the obvious risk that he might take it for an instructional manual.Perhaps the safest thing for everyone would be to give the man some poetry — it has a singular way of slipping through the backdoor of the psyche to anneal truth and open even the most fisted heart, “to awaken sleepers by other means than shock,” as the poet Denise Levertov put it. I’d say “Crave Radiance,” by Elizabeth Alexander — one of our finest living poets — but I doubt the fact that she was Barack Obama’s inauguration poet would go over well with the current administration.Any book by Jane Hirshfield — a splendid poet and an ordained Buddhist — would probably do more good in this country, in the White House and in every home, than all the political op-eds and polemics combined.You’re organizing a literary dinner party. Which three writers, dead or alive, do you invite?Rachel Carson, Susan Sontag, Margaret Fuller. It could go one of two ways: intoxicating intellectual repartee — the fiercely opinionated Sontag and Fuller would either love or loathe one another, and Carson would sit in unassuming quietude, speaking only rarely and with the perfect, perfectly formulated sentiment — or literary speed dating for queer women. I, for one, am half-infatuated with all three.How do you decide what to read next? Is it reviews, word-of-mouth, books by friends, books for research? Does it depend on mood or do you plot in advance?I often say that literature is the original internet — every allusion, footnote and reference is a hyperlink to another text. Nearly all books I read enter my life through the gateway of other books, which explains why, over the nearly 13-year span of Brain Pickings, my writing has plunged deeper and deeper into the past — this analog web only extends backward in time, for a book can only reference texts previously published. It’s a great antidote to the presentism bias that envelops us, in which we mistake the latest and the loudest — the flotsam of opinion atop social media streams — for the most important, most insightful, most relevant. Right around Ferguson, I discovered through a passing mention in an out-of-print collection of Margaret Mead’s Redbook advice columns her 1970 conversation with James Baldwin, in which they discuss race, gender, identity, democracy, morality, the immigrant experience and a great many other topics of acute relevance today, with tenfold the dignity and depth of insight than our current modes of cultural discourse afford.What do you plan to read next?I recently discovered Jenny Uglow’s 2002 biography of the Lunar Men — a small group of freethinking intellectuals, whose members are responsible for the development of the steam engine and a cascade of other advances in science. Somehow, I had completely missed it in my research, even though members of the Lunar Men flit in and out of “Figuring.” The more you read, the more you miss.An expanded version of this interview is available at nytimes.com/books. Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page 7 of the Sunday Book Review with the headline: Maria Popova. 

Will the Mueller Report Be Made Public? 17 Answers to What May Come Next - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexU.S.SubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperU.S.|Will the Mueller Report Be Made Public? 17 Answers to What May Come NextAdvertisementSupported byWill the Mueller Report Be Made Public? 17 Answers to What May Come NextMaggie Haberman, Michael Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti and more of our journalists explained what the submission of the full report means and what may come next.By The New York TimesMarch 22, 2019The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and his team have finished their long-anticipated report after investigating possible Russian interference in the 2016 election and obstruction of justice by President Trump and his associates. [Read about the special counsel’s full report that was delivered to the attorney general on Friday. ]We asked readers what they wanted to know about the report and what may come next. We received more than 600 questions, and our journalists in Washington responded to a selection.It’s quite simple: What will the public get to see, and when will that happen?Ben Nieves, Portland, Ore.It all depends on Attorney General William Barr. He is now reading the report to see whether Mr. Mueller alleges that President Trump broke the law and to determine how much of the investigators’ findings should be made public. Mr. Barr told Congress earlier this year that he wants to release as much as he can. On Friday, he told Congress he could provide lawmakers with an update on Mr. Mueller’s findings as soon as this weekend. But he could be limited in what he can tell Congress, as the special counsel’s report may contain classified information and evidence obtained by a grand jury.— Michael S. SchmidtImageWilliam P. Barr, the attorney general, received the special counsel’s report from Robert S. Mueller on Friday.CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesDoes Barr have sole discretion on what will be released and what will be suppressed?Callie Maister, TorontoMr. Barr has broad discretion, but it is not absolute. He may not lawfully be able to share information that is subject to grand jury secrecy rules absent a court’s permission, for example. He is also likely to acquiesce to any decision by President Trump to assert executive privilege to withhold certain materials, like communications with the president or agency deliberations. During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Barr said he intended to be as transparent as possible, consistent with the Justice Department’s practices and policies. That could mean withholding information about open investigations or about people Mr. Mueller decided not to charge with a crime. There is also a wild card: Mr. Barr has long adhered to a sweeping view of executive power under which the president, as head of the executive branch, has a constitutional right to control the exercise of discretionary policymaking by a subordinate such as himself.— Charlie SavageOn what grounds could William Barr decline to release information from Mr. Mueller’s report?PJ Abraham, CaliforniaMr. Barr could decline to release any information that is classified or subject to grand jury rules. He could also keep any information from the public that is relevant to ongoing investigations. There could also be a looming battle over any information the White House claims is subject to “executive privilege,” which protects confidential discussions between the president and his advisers.— Mark MazzettiAre additional indictments from Mr. Mueller’s office (as opposed to from the Southern District of New York or other districts) possible or even likely?Bruce Mastron, Gainesville, Fla.The investigation by the special counsel’s office is over now that Mr. Mueller has provided his final report to the attorney general. So his team is not expected to seek additional charges. Other federal prosecutors who received information related to Mr. Mueller’s investigation could move forward and seek indictments. For instance, federal prosecutors in New York continue to investigate possible crimes that Mr. Mueller referred to them related to campaign finance violations that ensnared Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer. Prosecutors are also investigating a top fund-raiser to Mr. Trump and a former lawyer in the Obama administration. Mr. Mueller had referred both cases to other prosecutors.— Adam GoldmanImagePresident Trump departed the White House on Friday.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesWhy can’t a sitting president be indicted?Michelle Milligan, San FranciscoNothing in the Constitution or federal statutes says that sitting presidents are immune from prosecution, and no court has ruled that they have any such shield. But the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel — under the Nixon administration, and again under the Clinton administration — has opined that “structural principles” in the Constitution implicitly bar indicting a president. Essentially, the idea is that the stigma of being indicted and the burden of a trial would unduly interfere with a president’s ability to oversee the executive branch and carry out his constitutional duties, so any indictment would have to wait until he is no longer president — either through impeachment and removal, or because his term is up. This interpretation of the Constitution is disputed, but it is nevertheless binding on Justice Department prosecutors, including Mr. Mueller.— Charlie SavageWhat happens to all the collected evidence? Does the law require that it be archived, even if not public, or can it be destroyed?James Palmer, Burlington, Vt.There have already been referrals that Mr. Mueller has made to federal prosecutors when he has found evidence of a possible crime that he considered outside his purview. The prosecution of Mr. Cohen began as a referral by Mr. Mueller to prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. House Democrats are almost certain to seek the evidence that Mr. Mueller received during the course of his investigation. A number of House committee chairmen are planning to ask executive branch agencies to preserve documents that they provided to the special counsel.— Maggie HabermanWhat would the worst-case scenario version of the report look like for Trump? What conclusions would it reach, and why would those be bad for Trump?Dakota Gardner, BrooklynWe don’t know what’s in the report. I don’t want to speculate on what the worst-case scenario might be. But we do know that the special counsel had been investigating whether the president obstructed justice when he fired James B. Comey, then the F.B.I. director, in May 2017. Mr. Mueller had also been examining Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia and whether anybody associated with his campaign conspired with the Russians during the 2016 election. Mr. Mueller’s investigation led to charges against more than 30 people, but none of them tied the president to a Russian conspiracy.— Adam GoldmanWhy was Trump not interviewed? What effect will this have on the investigation?Beth Long, Knoxville, Tenn.We really don’t know the answer, but Mr. Trump’s lawyers consider it one of their greatest accomplishments that he never sat for an interview. In early 2018, Mr. Mueller threatened to subpoena the president, setting off months of negotiations between the special counsel’s office and Mr. Trump’s lawyers. Ultimately, in November, Mr. Trump answered several questions in writing about what occurred during the campaign. But he refused to answer questions about his time in office — including whether he tried to obstruct justice. This meant that Mr. Mueller’s prosecutors were only left with the statements of other witnesses when they sought to determine why Mr. Trump may have interfered with the investigation. Mr. Trump’s lawyers believed heading off an interview was such a great success because if he had testified, he would have been at risk of making an inaccurate statement and increasing his criminal exposure.— Michael S. SchmidtImagePeople took pictures outside of the Department of Justice.CreditSarah Silbiger/The New York TimesI would love to know what is next for Robert Mueller now that the report is complete.Philip Goodwin, Moraga, Calif.Good question, we don’t know. Disney World?We do know that some members of his team intend to return to their jobs at law firms in New York and Washington, and others to return to the Justice Department. It has been reported that Andrew Weissmann, one of the senior members of the team, intends to teach at New York University. As for Mr. Mueller, maybe he’ll also go back to working at a law firm or retire. It’s certainly possible that one or more of the House committees investigating various aspects of the case and Mr. Trump will want to call him to testify, though Mr. Barr, the attorney general, will have a say in whether he can do so.— Mark MazzettiWhat could possibly be in the report that isn’t appropriate for anyone to see? Why can’t specifics (like names) be redacted and the gist of what was found be released? Is it anything other than Trump damage control?Peter Sherno, MinneapolisIn his letter to Congress on Friday, Mr. Barr said he “may be in a position to advise you of the Special Counsel’s principal conclusions as soon as this weekend.” But we don’t know what is in the underlying report. Here are some categories of elements that may raise legal or policy concerns about disclosure to Congress or the public:1. Any highly classified information, such as something that could help the Russian government identify and take out an intelligence source;2. Anything that remains relevant to an ongoing investigation, such as those that Mr. Mueller spun off to regular prosecutors or the ongoing counterintelligence investigation into Russia;3. Testimony and files that were presented to the grand jury and so are subject to a federal rule of criminal procedure that generally forbids disclosure of such material absent a court order;4. Negative information about people whom prosecutors scrutinized but decided not to charge with a crime, which the Justice Department normally does not make public (this is why Mr. Comey’s news conference about Hillary Clinton’s email server was so broadly condemned by other law enforcement officials);5. Internal executive branch information, like confidential communications with the president or agency deliberations, that could be subject to a claim of executive privilege.— Charlie SavageCan Congress subpoena the report?Eric M., New YorkIn short, yes. Congress can subpoena just about anything it wants, but that does not mean lawmakers will do so or that they will be successful in getting what they want. Democrats have made abundantly clear that they will be satisfied with nothing less than Mr. Mueller’s full report and access to his underlying evidence. They will start by asking for the Justice Department to share all that information voluntarily. If the department resists, a committee could issue a subpoena to try to compel it to produce the relevant documents. What comes next is likely complicated. There are several reasons the Justice Department might be unwilling to just hand over classified or grand jury information, even under subpoena. In that case, Congress could sue to try to enforce its demand. Then it would be up to the courts to decide who gets to see what.— Nicholas FandosImageMr. Barr informed Congress on Friday that Mr. Mueller’s investigation concluded.CreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesDo the president and the White House get to read the Mueller report and provide their feedback to William Barr before Barr releases his report to Congress?Allen Samelson, Berkeley, Calif.The White House counsel’s office anticipates being able to review the report to raise possible objections related to executive privilege. We have no sense right now how long that will take, but any effort by the White House to bar the release of elements of the report is sure to set off a political and legal battle.Mr. Barr said on Friday that he anticipates being able to brief Congress within a few days about the special counsel’s “principal conclusions.” But it is not clear how much of the report’s details and underlying documentation he will ultimately provide to Congress and, by extension, the public. Mr. Barr appeared to be lowering expectations during his Senate confirmation hearings when he said he wanted to be as transparent as possible but might provide simply a summary to Congress.— Maggie HabermanHow much of the report will be available to state and federal prosecutors in other jurisdictions without requiring approval from Justice Department appointees?Theo Chism, Santa Barbara, Calif.We have no information that the full report will be made available to state or federal prosecutors. But during the course of his investigation, Mr. Mueller has referred a number of cases to other federal prosecutors in New York and Washington.— Adam GoldmanWhy does this really matter? If Trump’s base and the Republican Party stick with him through thick and thin (as they have on the majority of issues in the first two years of Trump’s presidency), then how important really is this report?Emma Strenski, IndianapolisWe still don’t know what’s in the report. In terms of electoral politics, you’re right — it might not fundamentally change the partisan divide over Mr. Trump. His supporters have shown a willingness to stay with him in the face of allegations and behavior that might have doomed a more traditional politician.But you could argue that this report has an importance that goes well beyond partisan politics, reflecting an investigation that yielded substantial results — not least in establishing the degree of Russian interference in the 2016 election. Don’t forget that half a dozen Trump aides have been indicted or convicted. Regardless of Mr. Mueller’s conclusions, Democrats in the House are pressing ahead on issues such as whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice after becoming president. The Democrats say Mr. Barr needs to make as much of Mr. Mueller’s findings public as soon as possible because the American people deserve an accounting of what went on.— Michael S. SchmidtCan you explain Mueller “not recommending any new charges be filed”? Does this mean Trump and his family are in the clear, or could there be something in the report to implicate them for other, perhaps bigger, things?Krista Burns, OhioIf anyone is to be indicted down the road, it won’t be by Mr. Mueller. It’s now clear that his team won’t try to charge anyone else, because his work is done. To be sure, there are now numerous, ongoing investigations by other federal prosecutors that could mean legal peril for Mr. Trump’s advisers or family members. Remember that in the investigation being run by prosecutors in the Southern District of New York, Mr. Cohen implicated the president in a scheme to pay off two women before the 2016 election. But given Justice Department rules, there isn’t any expectation that Mr. Trump would be in legal jeopardy as long as he’s in the White House.— Mark MazzettiHow much did the Mueller report cost?Steve Satterwhite, Duncanville, Tex.As of Sept. 30, 2018, the special counsel’s investigation had cost more than $25 million. More than $12 million of that was direct spending by Mr. Mueller’s team. That amount will increase once the special counsel’s office submits its final list of expenses. Those costs included the expenses of Justice Department personnel and other resources that supported the special counsel office. The special counsel says the Justice Department would have incurred those expenses for the “investigations irrespective of the existence of the (special counsel office).” The special counsel also seized more millions in property and fines.— Adam GoldmanHow long — as in, how many pages — can we expect the report be?James Underwood, Columbus, OhioWe wish we knew. Keep in mind there are likely to be two reports: one prepared by Mr. Mueller for the Justice Department and another prepared by Mr. Barr to be shared with Congress and the public. Both reports could be as short as a few pages, or considerably longer. And Mr. Barr could well choose to give the public a more concise report than Mr. Mueller gave him. That said, a senior Justice Department official told reporters on Friday that the report delivered by Mr. Mueller had been “comprehensive.”— Nicholas FandosCatch Up on the Mueller InvestigationMueller Delivers Report on Trump-Russia Investigation to Attorney GeneralMarch 22, 2019Glimpses of the Mystery That Is the Mueller InvestigationMarch 21, 2019Mueller Report: Who and What the Special Counsel InvestigatedMarch 20, 2019Intimidation, Pressure and Humiliation: Inside Trump’s Two-Year War on the Investigations Encircling HimFeb. 19, 2019Correction: March 26, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated Robert S. Mueller III’s work status before he became the special counsel. Mr. Mueller was a partner at a law firm; he was not retired.Correction: March 22, 2019An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a senior member of Mr. Mueller’s team. He is Andrew Weissmann, not Weissman.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline: Looking Ahead: Our Readers Ask And We Answer. 

Opinion | Why Can’t Rich People Save Winter? - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InSunday Review|Why Can’t Rich People Save Winter?ImageSkiers had to thread their way through patches of dry ground at Squaw Valley Ski Resort, in Olympic Valley, Calif., in 2015.CreditCreditMax Whittaker/Getty ImagesOpinionWhy Can’t Rich People Save Winter?Ski season is shrinking. Yet the people who love the sport aren’t doing enough to stop climate change.Skiers had to thread their way through patches of dry ground at Squaw Valley Ski Resort, in Olympic Valley, Calif., in 2015.CreditCreditMax Whittaker/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Porter FoxMr. Fox was a features editor at Powder magazine and is the author of “Deep: The Story of Skiing and the Future of Snow.”Feb. 2, 2019From the snow-dusted ridgelines of the Catskills to the rugged summits of the Rocky Mountains, Sierra Nevada and Cascades, winter is slowly disappearing. And snow is receding with it.We know humans are altering the climate. Temperatures in south-central Colorado have risen two degrees Fahrenheit on average since 1988. In California’s Lake Tahoe region, home to more than a dozen ski areas, warmer temperatures since 1970 have pushed the snow line uphill 1,200 to 1,500 feet. Winter season lengths are projected to decline at ski areas across the United States, in some locations by more than 50 percent by 2050 and by 80 percent by 2090 if greenhouse gas emissions continue at their current rate, according to a 2017 study. Only about half of the 103 ski resorts in the Northeast will be able to maintain an economically viable ski season by midcentury, another study found in 2012.In Europe, the cradle of ski culture, the problem is even worse. Half the glacial ice in the Alps has already melted; a study published two years ago in The Cryosphere, a journal of the European Geosciences Union, predicted 70 percent less snow in the mountains by the end of the century, threatening a $30 billion ski industry driven by more than 60 million tourists a year.For the American ski industry, the impact has already been pronounced. Between 2001 and 2016, low-snow years cost the industry more than $1 billion and 17,400 jobs compared with an average season, according to a study commissioned by the nonprofit group Protect Our Winters.I’ve been a skier for 45 years, and my passion for the sport has taken me to five continents. I’ve skied remote places, like the Cordillera Real in Bolivia, where a farmer at the base of a 16,000-foot peak I had just climbed and skied told me his village was relocating because the glacier no longer provided enough water. I’ve hiked and skied at New England resorts that have closed because of a lack of snow and money for snow-making. And I’ve visited dozens of resorts in the United States, Canada and Europe where the wealthy and not-so-wealthy gather — and where snowpacks are shrinking.If any group was able to get political traction and defend winter in the United States, it stands to reason that it would be the winter sports community — a passionate population more than 24 million people strong that includes some of the nation’s most affluent and influential citizens. Of the 14.7 million skiers in this country, 67 percent attended college and more than half earn more than $75,000 a year. In Aspen and its surrounding environs, nearly 50 billionaires have homes. ImageOutside the Little Nell hotel at the foot of Aspen Mountain in 2015.CreditMorgan Rachel Levy for The New York TimesWith the outlook for winter so dim, it is surprising, shocking even, that the ski industry and the alpine 1 percent it serves have not led the charge to slow climate change — if not to keep the climate safe for their progeny, then at least to save the snow outside their resorts and chalets. Instead, they have largely kept silent or, at most, pursued anemic, low-impact “sustainability” and “awareness” campaigns that give the appearance of advocacy but have done little to accomplish what the winter sports world, and the world at large, needs: rapid reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.So with experts urging fast action to avoid serious consequences from climate change, where is the snow lobby?“Many ski resort executives at large resorts are focused on yearly earnings; small resorts are simply focused on staying in business,” said Mario Molina, the executive director of Protect Our Winters. “This focus on earnings and the resulting aversion to entering politics has led to stasis. With exceptions, most of the industry and trade groups are increasingly paying lip service, but are still unwilling to make it a top priority when engaging law- and policymakers."Protect Our Winters, founded by the professional snowboarder Jeremy Jones in 2007, is one of the few organizations fighting for snow on Capitol Hill. Using the reach of its ski industry partners and more than 60 high-profile professional athletes, the group has been lobbying Congress and the White House for laws to slow climate change.In 2018, Protect Our Winters created a separate action fund that focused on midterm elections in Colorado, Montana, Nevada and California’s Fourth Congressional District, offering climate-change education, get-out-the-vote programs and support for climate-friendly candidates. As for P.O.W. itself, so far the group has managed to rally support to its cause from only 20 ski resorts and more than a dozen corporate sponsors willing to contribute at least $25,000 each, though dozens more give more than $5,000. Recalcitrance to engage in hard-hitting advocacy, unfortunately, is common in the ski industry. The National Ski Areas Association deserves credit for planting the seeds of sustainability and awareness among skiers as far back as 2000. But its subsequent efforts, like programs to encourage the purchase of carbon credits to offset emissions and signing open letters urging elected officials to support the Paris climate accord and President Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan, do more to make them look environmentally responsible than to reduce emissions. “We take a highroad, proactive approach and not a divisive approach when we work with members of Congress, and we’re going to continue to do that,” said Geraldine Link, the association’s director of public policy. “We don’t use ‘doom and gloom’ or ‘sky is falling’ messaging.” Ski resorts have no problem pushing for policies to help them adapt to warmer winters, throwing their weight behind legislation to protect water rights (for snow-making) and to keep a portion of ski area permit fees to remain in the national forest where the resorts operate.
They’ve also developed warm-weather resort activities like mountain biking, zip lines, ropes courses, mountain coasters and music festivals.“The counterargument we often get as to why there has not been meaningful activism is that ‘the industry is thriving; we’re going to adapt; we’re more efficient making snow; we are diversifying our revenue stream,’” Mr. Molina said. “And to me that just sounds like multiple forms of denial that I’ve heard in other industries — where they say, ‘Yes, climate change is bad, but we’re going to be O.K.’ And the reality is that we’re not.”Perhaps that attitude explains this: In federal and state elections over the last 10 years, many owners and executives at ski resorts, their political action committees and industry trade groups have contributed thousands of dollars to the campaigns of lawmakers who have stood in the way of important climate change legislation. The National Ski Areas Association has argued, for instance, that it needs friends on both sides of the aisle in Washington, and that some of these lawmakers have supported important initiatives like year-round activities at ski resorts and protecting water rights. My point is: They shouldn’t be giving any money to lawmakers who oppose efforts to slow or stop climate change. The time for soft-pedaling passed decades ago. At this very late stage in the game, the snow sports world needs decisive action.Consider the lawmakers pictured below. They represent districts that are home to a ski resort or resorts. You might think they would support legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to slow the planet’s warming and protect the snow that provides livelihoods for constituents. But, according to an analysis of their records over the course of their careers on measures directly related to climate change from the League of Conservation Voters, that’s rarely, if ever, how they vote. Snow is about more than skiing, of course. It’s the world’s water tower, providing up to 50 percent of the planet’s fresh water supply and drinking water for two billion people. Up to 75 percent of the water used by farms and cities in the American West comes from snowmelt. Melt water in the Colorado River alone feeds seven states and 40 million people and provides roughly a third of all the water for Southern California’s cities.Low snowfall can also be the first domino in a long line of natural catastrophes downstream — like the infestation of mountain pine beetles in water-starved trees that has ravaged 23 million acres of forest in the West since 2000. In California, low snowpack has been directly tied to the rise in wildfires.At least some of the wonder around snow and skiing comes from the raw natural forces that cause water vapor to freeze around a dust particle in a cloud and form a simple hydrogen-bonded crystal, a prism with six sides. Now, at some resorts, some of this same raw power — sun, wind, water — is spinning lifts, making snow and carrying skiers high into the hills. Climate advocates see this as a sign that the industry is becoming more engaged in the climate fight.Because ski resorts require a tremendous amount of electricity to power snow-making, lifts and resort operations, they are influential customers of state and local utilities. And they can help determine how the electricity they buy is generated. Aspen Skiing Company spent 15 years working to move its local utility, Holy Cross Energy, to renewables. Other ski resorts are starting to prod utilities in the same direction. Squaw Valley Alpine Meadows in California recently announced a partnership with Liberty Utilities to transition the resort’s power to 100 percent renewable energy. More than a dozen large ski resorts and communities have become or committed to going 100 percent renewable in recent years, while smaller resorts like Berkshire East in Massachusetts and Mount Abram in Maine create renewable electricity on-site with wind and solar power. This kind of rapid transition is exactly what climate scientists say we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and slow climate change — and assure we will continue to have snow in our mountains. Because utilities operate mostly at a regional or local level, says Jon Goldin-Dubois, the president of Western Resource Advocates, a conservation advocacy group, it is possible to reshape the power grid from the ground up. An outdoor sports lobby could be important in making that happen. “It’s broad-based, it cuts across sectors, cuts across a variety of different interests — Democrats, independents, Republicans,” he said. “It’s a tremendously powerful opportunity to engage.” Just such a partnership took shape a few days ago at the annual Outdoor Retailer snow show in Denver when the two major ski and snow sport industry groups, the ski areas association and Snowsports Industries America, joined with the Outdoor Industry Association to announce the “Outdoor Business Climate Partnership.” The group has already planned a spring trip to Washington to push for climate change solutions. The outdoor recreation industry is responsible for $887 billion in annual consumer spending that supports 7.6 million jobs, according to the Outdoor Industry Association. That gives it muscle, which the group has been willing to flex. It pushed to move the industry’s trade show, and the $45 million in spending it generates, from Salt Lake City to Denver to protest support by prominent Utah politicians for the Trump administration’s shrinking of several national monuments in the state. This new coalition, said Nick Sargent, the Snowsports Industries president, reflects changes at the top of those three organizations. “What we’re hearing now from some of our members is: ‘What can we do? How quickly can we get this up and running?’” he said.The real power of the coalition, said Amy Roberts, the executive director of the Outdoor Industry Association, comes from consumers. Last year, 150 million Americans participated in outdoor recreation. “When I talk with somebody about the outdoors, they don’t say, ‘I go skiing’ or ‘I go climbing’ or ‘I like to run marathons,’” she said. “They all say, ‘I’m a skier; I’m a climber; I’m a runner.’ It’s identity versus something that they do. And so people are willing to go the extra mile to come to Washington, to write the letter, to get engaged, because it’s part of who they are as a person versus what they do.”Auden Schendler, the vice president for sustainability at Aspen Skiing Company, has been a leading voice in the fight to save snow for two decades. He and a team pioneered projects like Aspen’s methane-powered electricity plant, which burns methane that had been escaping from a nearby coal mine and sells the power — enough to run the resort — to the local utility. The green business practices he helped lead at Aspen are now taught at the Harvard Business School and others.ImageA power plant
burns methane from the Elk Creek mine in Somerset, Colo.CreditJeremy SwansonMr. Schendler sits on the Protect Our Winters board. To make progress against climate change, he said, the ski industry and its trade groups need to make climate the No. 1 priority, publicly withdraw support from elected officials who deny climate science, use their marketing power to promote climate action and weigh in at the federal level with direct action, like working to elect candidates. “Skiing happens to be prominent in red or purple energy states and in key swing states where the climate movement needs traction,” he said. “In Montana, P.O.W. specifically mobilized fishers, climbers, skiers and hikers to vote for” Jon Tester, the incumbent Democratic senator, who was re-elected in November. The outdoor community, he said, “is starting to become the N.R.A. of the climate movement, wielding power from a passionate base.”So now the question is whether the ski and winter sport industry will back up its talk with action. And by that, I mean making a priority of political advocacy directed at electing lawmakers committed to reducing the greenhouse gas emissions that threaten the snowy peaks their enterprises depend on.Mr. Sargent, the Snowsports Industries president, said the game is on. “We made a decision that we are going to work toward reducing the carbon footprint and preserving winter for the next generation, so that is what we are going to do and that’s our commitment,” he said. “It’s time to do it. Better late than never.”Porter Fox is the author, most recently, of “Northland: A 4,000-Mile Journey Along America’s Forgotten Border.”Graphics by Ash Ngu and Jessia MaA version of this article appears in print on , on Page SR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Why Can’t Rich People Save Winter?. 

A 7-Hour, 6-Mile, Round-the-Museum Tour of the Prado - The New York Times
Travel|A 7-Hour, 6-Mile, Round-the-Museum Tour of the PradoImage"Las Meninas," by Diego Velázquez, in Gallery 12 in the Prado Museum in Madrid.CreditCreditEmilio Parra Doiztua for The New York TimesSectionsSkip to contentSkip to site indexA 7-Hour, 6-Mile, Round-the-Museum Tour of the Prado On the year of the Madrid museum’s bicentennial, our writer visits every gallery, vestibule and passageway to see if he had missed anything on his previous 200 visits. He had."Las Meninas," by Diego Velázquez, in Gallery 12 in the Prado Museum in Madrid.CreditCreditEmilio Parra Doiztua for The New York TimesSupported byBy Andrew FerrenMarch 18, 2019It’s often said that we don’t appreciate what we have until it’s gone. In the early 19th century, Spain’s royal family had time to ruminate on that axiom when they lost not only their throne to Napoleon’s brother, Joseph Bonaparte, but also hundreds of priceless paintings and other treasures, which had been stripped from Spanish palaces, monasteries and churches, and carted off to Paris by the French army.With Napoleon’s defeat in 1814, both the throne and the artworks were returned to the restored Spanish monarch, Ferdinand VII, who had used his time off as ruler to hatch a plan for safeguarding his collection for future generations. Spurred by his culturally enlightened second wife, Maria Isabel de Braganza, Ferdinand created the Royal Museum of Paintings in Madrid in 1819. Beginning with about 300 masterpieces from the so-called Golden Age of Spanish painting in the 16th and 17th centuries, the museum grew to include art from across Europe. Today, vastly expanded and known as the Prado, the museum is one of the world’s great repositories of Western art.To honor its bicentennial, the museum has organized a yearlong celebration, starting last November with three days of “puertas abiertas” (free admission) that drew nearly 30,000 people. There are special exhibitions in the museum galleries, in parks and plazas around Madrid, and in museums across Spain. The Prado is even recreating the painting and furniture arrangement of “their Majesties’ retiring room,” complete with Ferdinand’s personal toilet.Most apparent to visitors is that the museum’s largest masterpiece — its stately neoclassical building designed by the architect Juan de Villanueva and begun in 1785 — has been almost completely enveloped in a crazy-quilt shroud composed of details from paintings inside. Later this year, the monumental birthday present will be unwrapped to reveal a pristinely restored facade.ImageThe stately neoclassical building that houses the Prado will be unwrapped later this year.CreditEmilio Parra Doiztua for The New York TimesBut for me, the Prado experience is personal. I moved to Spain from New York City in 2002, and the Prado was absolutely part of the reason I chose to live in Madrid over Barcelona or Seville. My first assignment as a journalist was a story on the Prado’s expansion, designed by Rafael Moneo, though I would have to wait five years to write it as legal battles and construction delays pushed the opening to 2007. Later, I followed Gabriele Finaldi, currently the director of London’s National Gallery, but then deputy director of the Prado, on the whirlwind 45-minute highlights tour he often gave to visiting heads of state. And whether they want it or not, visiting family and friends are subjected to my own highlights tour of the Prado.But this year, amid the hoopla surrounding the anniversary, I found myself wondering if, after 17 years and more than 200 visits to the museum, was I — like the pre-Napoleon Ferdinand VII — so accustomed to the highlights that I took everything else for granted? I decided to celebrate the bicentennial by renewing my knowledge of the entire museum — every gallery, vestibule and passageway in which art is displayed.ImageThree works by Raphael in Gallery 49.CreditEmilio Parra Doiztua for The New York TimesAn evolving strategyFast forward to 10 a.m. on a chilly Tuesday in January. Even as I stood amid the morning rush at the Prado’s entrance, scanning a floor plan with the nearly 120 galleries I would navigate, I never expected I’d be in the museum for seven hours. In fact, I envisioned myself home by 2 p.m., enjoying some leftover albondigas (meatballs) and a siesta before making the school run to fetch my kids at 4 p.m.
Madrid
Museo Nacional
de Artes Decorativas
Museo Naval
Thyssen-Bornemisza
Paseo
del Prado
Prado
parque de
El retiro
Royal
Botanical
Garden
CaixaForum
Madrid
Reina Sofia
1/4 mile
By The New York TimesBut once inside, circumstances quickly intervened — and by circumstances I mean lingering in galleries I typically breezed through; resting on a bench while surreptitiously listening to elementary school children decide which baby is Jesus (he’s the one with the halo in “The Adoration of the Magi,” by Rubens); getting to know a slew of sexy Greek and Roman mythological figures, some of whose names and heroic attributes were a revelation to me; and discovering some new (again, to me) Spanish artists of astonishing talent. So, albondigas be damned, there I was at 3 p.m. in the museum cafe, scarfing down a wedge of tortilla española and frantically arranging for someone else to pick up my children, before wandering back to the galleries where I’d remain — thirsty, hungry and exhausted, at times, but blissfully happy — until 5 p.m.ImageTwo equestrian works by Velázquez in Gallery 12.CreditEmilio Parra Doiztua for The New York TimesWhere to startThere is no one designated route to follow through the Prado and the numerical order given to the galleries doesn’t help much as Gallery 1 connects to Galleries 4, 24 and 42, but not to Gallery 2, so visitors can expect to occasionally double back to move on.I began my tour in Gallery 75 on the ground level in the 19th-century galleries. In the art world, there is not much love for Spanish 19th-century painting after the great Francisco de Goya, who died in 1828. But the galleries handily illustrate the period of the museum’s founding, starting with a regal portrait by Goya of a distrustful-looking King Ferdinand VII.Known as “el Rey Felón” (the Felon King), he was something of a retrograde despot who, as crown prince, conspired against his father, and as king, abolished Spain’s first constitution. If the Prado was his great gift to Spain, then perhaps Goya’s great gift to posterity was the ability to convey Ferdinand’s devious character in a portrait that the king himself would approve. Though she died a year before the museum opened, Ferdinand’s wife and pro-museum influencer, Maria Isabel de Braganza, is here as well, sculpted in marble in the style of a Roman empress by José Álvarez Cubero. And there’s a marvelously large 1787 wooden architectural model of the Prado itself that looks like an elaborate royal toy.Neighboring galleries display pastoral landscapes, portraits of bourgeois matrons, and melodramatic history paintings that may not appeal to everyone, but certainly reveal the exquisitely descriptive manner of 19th-century Spanish painting. On my visit, a group of high school students sat on the floor in front of Goya’s “The Second of May, 1808,” discussing the swirling street battle depicted, while others tried to decipher his enigmatic “black paintings”: images of witchcraft and raw human brutality painted in the turbulent aftermath of the Napoleonic wars.After those unsettling works, Galleries 71 through 74 provide a welcome intermezzo of gleaming Greek and Roman sculptures. Though it’s little known, the Prado displays more than 250 sculptures, including several purchased in Rome by Velázquez on behalf of King Philip IV in the 17th century.Image"The Baptism of Christ," by El Greco, in Gallery 9B.CreditEmilio Parra Doiztua for The New York TimesThe royal coreHeading back toward the center of the museum, the tour takes on more chronological coherence, starting with the Italian Renaissance. With wealth pouring in from the American colonies from the 16th century onward, Spain’s rulers had deep pockets for buying art. The first Hapsburg emperor, Charles V, and his son Philip II had the taste to match their resources, and acquired the best of the best.Exploring Gallery 49 and 56B is like stepping into a textbook of Italian Renaissance and Mannerist art with no fewer than seven glorious Raphaels, as well as works by Mantegna, Fra Angelico, Botticelli, Correggio, Andrea del Sarto, Bronzino and Parmigianino. There’s even an anonymous version of the “Mona Lisa,” likely painted by one of Leonardo da Vinci’s pupils, in the same room at the same time as the Louvre’s most famous painting. With so many beloved masterpieces, it’s easy to just ricochet from painting to painting.Under Charles V, the Flanders region also became linked to the Spanish crown as cities like Bruges, Ghent and Antwerp were important financial centers and the heart of a thriving art market. More on traveling in Spain36 Hours in MadridSept. 21, 2017In Spain, Searching for Ancestors, Dry Wine and Calm SeasJan. 16, 2018The Prado Museum, Spain’s Cultural Jewel, Turns 200Jan. 28, 2019One work not to be missed is Rogier van der Weyden’s “Descent from the Cross.” Instead of revealing a window into another realm, the artist’s shallow pictorial space pushes the nearly life-size figures taking Christ’s body off the cross into our world, making the pathos — translucent tears stream down several faces — all the more powerful. It’s so moving that people often drift away from it without noticing that hanging nearby are paintings by artists like Robert Campin and Hans Memling that would be stars in any other museum.While the school groups slipped off for lunch, the throngs of grown-ups in the Flemish galleries were thickening. Since I love art but hate crowds, I didn’t get into the melee in front of Hieronymus Bosch’s famous triptych “The Garden of Earthly Delights,” a cinematic and fantastically freakish portrayal of the fall from paradise to hell, but went instead to his other works, such as “The Haywain,” and those by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, Albrecht Dürer and Joachim Patinir, the latter a painter of luminous landscapes with scarcely a penitent saint or writhing sinner in sight.ImageThe gift shop at the Prado.CreditEmilio Parra Doiztua for The New York TimesMy personal Spanish RevivalIt was 1 p.m., my iPhone had already clocked 7,600 steps and I still had two floors to go. At this point, I would typically have headed to the main level where the art shifts gear to the dramatic Baroque of which Spanish masters were among the standard bearers. On this day, however, I had promised to first reacquaint myself with the Renaissance in Spain at the building’s far northern end.Recent Prado exhibitions have successfully “resurrected” some 15th- and 16th-century Spanish artists, including Luis de Morales and Bartolomé Bermejo. New to me was the artist Juan de Juanes, whose six exquisite panels created for the altar of Valencia’s Church of St. Stephen are now given pride of place in recently reinstalled galleries. Considered the finest painter in Valencia of the 16th century, his “Portrait of a Knight of the Order of Santiago” reveals how subtly and skillfully he blended Italian concepts of courtly portraiture with sumptuous surface detail.One flight up from the Spanish Renaissance galleries is Gallery 1, displaying a single work: Leone Leoni’s imposing 1551 bronze sculpture, “Emperor Charles V and the Fury.” The emperor’s exquisitely made suit of armor comes off to reveal a heroic nude beneath. Leoni was a favorite of the Hapsburgs, and sculptures of other family members (though none that bare it all) are displayed in the cloister gallery of the Jeronimos wing.From Gallery 1, the masterpieces come fast and furious. Galleries 40 to 44 reveal, in sometimes overwhelming abundance, the sensuality and lush colors of Giovanni Bellini, Lorenzo Lotto, Veronese and other masters of the Venetian School of painting. The Prado has more paintings by Titian, the godfather of Venetian painting, than any other museum — most of them emblematic works like “The Andrians,” “Venus and Adonis” and “Virgin Dolorosa,” which influenced generations of artists.The Flemish painter Peter Paul Rubens came to Madrid in the 17th century as both a diplomat and an artist, frequently copying works in the royal collection by Titian and others. He also painted works of his own for the Spanish kings. Many of them line the 367-foot-long central gallery that forms the spine of the Prado and creates a visual nexus, revealing the links between the great masters of Spanish painting — El Greco, Ribera, Zurbarán, Maíno, Velázquez and Murillo — and their Italian and Flemish forebears.ImageCafé Murillo, near the Prado, is popular with both stylish madrileños and visitors like Michelle Obama.CreditEmilio Parra Doiztua for The New York TimesA break and a biteStrolling the gallery, one feels the tug of creativity across a golden century. But halfway through it I felt pangs of hunger. It was 3 p.m. and I needed a break, a bite and someone to collect my kids from school.I ran to the museum’s cafe, though on another day I would have headed to one of several worthwhile restaurants nearby, such as Café Murillo, a local joint that is popular with both stylish madrileños and Michelle Obama (who’s been twice), or Trattoria Sant'Arcangelo, a cozy Italian spot that often serves as the cantina for senior Prado staff. In warm weather the museum has a lovely outdoor cafe with yummy sandwiches and yummier sangria that might have kept me from going back inside to finish my mission.When I did venture back in, I was lucid enough to focus on my quest for surprises. Several presented themselves in the form of a gallery with more than a dozen paintings by the French painters Nicolas Poussin and Claude Lorrain that I never knew existed here. Ditto for another gallery of paintings by Anthony Van Dyck that I had somehow walked past for 17 years.A painters’ painter“Velázquez alone is worth the whole trip,” wrote the French painter Édouard Manet of his Prado visit in 1865. Velázquez, he noted, is the “painters’ painter,” so little wonder that the likes of John Singer Sargent, Pablo Picasso and Francis Bacon would make similar pilgrimages to study the works displayed in Galleries 7 through 18. Artists of the Spanish “golden age” in the 17th century seemed to delight in manipulating paint on the canvas to create dazzlingly realistic effects, such as the light shimmering on silk gowns in Velázquez's "Las Meninas," or the churning clouds in the apricot-and-lavender skies of El Greco. Spanish ‘naturalism’ — painting objects and people as they actually appear — can have a deeper emotional impact, as seen in the candor and humanity of Velázquez's portraits of buffoons or the austerity of Zurbarán’s nearly all black-and-white paintings, like “Agnus Dei,” which conveys the solemnity of Catholic Spain.These galleries are the heart of my own Prado highlights tour, and even with my legs begging for rest, I spent more than an hour there.By the dawn of the 18th-century, Spain had a new ruling dynasty, the Bourbons, but the pace of royal collecting and commissioning remained apace. The Prado’s large collection of Goya’s portraits — including one of King Charles IV and his family that features his already devious-looking son Fernando — remind me that the artist’s canny ability to reveal a subject’s hapless or sinister character speaks across the centuries.Before heading to the third floor to delight in the frolic of Goya’s tapestry cartoons, I got a whiff of fresh coffee and, sensing I’d cut myself calorically short with that wee omelet for lunch, I followed my nose into the tiny new Café Jonicos and cookie shop tucked behind the central gallery. Sipping and chewing in surprising proximity to Rubens’s “Three Graces,” I mused on how much had changed since I had arrived in Madrid, when the Prado was among the most old-school of the world’s big-name museums, with surprisingly limited weekend and holiday hours, endless lines and a lackluster shop and cafe. Today, it’s a model of accessibility, open a minimum of nine hours a day (two of them with free admission), online ticket sales, hands-on exhibitions for the vision-impaired, a guide for the L.G.B.T. community, free online courses available to anyone, and now a coffee and cookie bar.More impressive still is what’s grown up around it — not just in my time, but in the 200 years since it was founded. Once on the edge of the city, the Prado, which means ‘meadow,’ is now the heart of one of the world’s most vibrant and diverse art districts — with the Reina Sofia Museum, the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, the Royal Botanical Garden, National Museum of Decorative Arts and the CaixaForum Madrid art space, not to mention the extraordinary Naval Museum, literally steps away. And at least 100 galleries, design and antiques shops line the surrounding streets. While no one needs to spend seven hours in one building, it would be easy to spend several days indulging in art appreciation in the neighborhood.After nearly 12,000 steps (about six miles), my final stop was a new, almost vault-like gallery tucked under the eaves in the North Tower, showcasing one final surprise: a collection of nearly 150 exquisite hardstone-and-rock-crystal goblets, platters and other objects adorned with gold and silver and known as the Dauphin’s Treasure.Maybe I was delirious at this point, but these stunning and delicate objects displayed next to the extraordinary padded leather cases that perfectly mimic the shape of the objects they carry — and are also centuries old — provide a fitting metaphor for the Prado itself: artistic perfection inside and out.Andrew Ferren, a Madrid-based freelance writer, is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.52 PLACES AND MUCH, MUCH MORE We have a new 52 Places traveler! Follow Sebastian Modak on Instagram as he travels the world, and discover more Travel coverage by following us on Twitter and Facebook. And sign up for our Travel Dispatch newsletter: Each week you’ll receive tips on traveling smarter, stories on hot destinations and access to photos from all over the world.A version of this article appears in print on , on Page TR1 of the New York edition with the headline: Rediscovering the Prado. 

How a Trans Soldier Took On the Jail That Denied Her Medication, and Won - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexSubscribeLog InNew York|How a Trans Soldier Took On the Jail That Denied Her Medication, and WonImageJessica Sunderland on Long Island this month.CreditCreditAnnie Tritt for The New York TimesHow a Trans Soldier Took On the Jail That Denied Her Medication, and WonShe began her transition during a tour of Iraq. When jail doctors on Long Island denied her hormone therapy, her body turned on her. Now they owe her $355,000.Jessica Sunderland on Long Island this month.CreditCreditAnnie Tritt for The New York TimesSupported byBy John LelandFeb. 15, 2019When the testosterone started to flow through her system, Jessica Sunderland felt the changes immediately.“I had to do stuff to deal with the anger,” she said. “Working out and meditating, and trying to breathe. I did anything to try to not focus on the anger.”She was an army veteran who had served in Iraq, but at that moment, in the fall of 2012, she was in the Suffolk County Correctional Facility on charges of burglary, kept in a cell 21 hours per day, in a body at war with her conception of who she was.She wanted medication to make it stop, and she wasn’t getting it.On a recent afternoon in her lawyer’s office, Ms. Sunderland presented a new phase of her life, including life as a blonde, with long braided hair extensions that she flicked away from her face. She had two prescription medications to lower her testosterone and another to provide estrogen.And she had a court ruling against two doctors at the Suffolk County jail for denying her hormone therapy, causing her to start what her lawyer described as an involuntary sex change. The jury found that the doctors had violated her constitutional right to necessary medical care and awarded her $355,000 in damages, plus a slightly larger sum that went to her lawyers.Advocates for transgender rights say it is the first time a jury has awarded punitive damages in such a case.For Ms. Sunderland, 32, who filed the original complaint under her given name, Jeremy, it was vindication for a long, often solitary battle.“I started the lawsuit back in 2013, and in the beginning it was just me by myself,” she said. “Just hearing the verdict, it means that I got what I had to say across. It shows that they can’t do what they’ve been doing without some kind of punishment.“It makes me think there are people who understand what happened and that it was wrong.”If you want to explore the fault lines of gender in the 21st century, you might devise an experiment like the criminal justice system. What does it mean when a person is two years into a transition and assigned to a facility that knows only male and female anatomy?Tensions that exist on the outside become viscerally exaggerated behind bars, where privacy is limited, sexes are segregated and force is unequal. How does an institution built on order accommodate the gray areas of gender diversity?Transgender people are several times more likely than the general population to spend time in jail or prison and, once there, to face harassment, assault and denial of prescribed medical care. Discrimination at home, school, the job market and the court system all funnel people toward jail or prison.“Transgender folks are criminalized in our society,” said Mateo De La Torre, a racial and economic justice policy advocate at the National Center for Transgender Equality. “They get kicked out of their home, they engage in the underground economy for survival. And law enforcement profiles transgender women of color as sex workers.”Like Ms. Sunderland, transgender women are routinely held in male facilities, subjected to strip searches or pat-downs by male guards, and are often held in near solitary confinement, ostensibly for their protection, but it can feel like punishment. Last year, the federal Bureau of Prisons reversed an Obama-era guideline that considered inmates’ gender identity when assigning them to male or female housing. The new guideline calls for housing inmates by “biological sex” except “in rare cases.”Ms. Sunderland’s award of damages may be a break in that pattern, advocates say.“We see this as a significant win,” said Mr. De La Torre of the National Center for Transgender Equality. “The fact of a unanimous jury decision sends a clear signal to correctional facilities that the general public understands that this is necessary treatment, and stands by transgender people.”The decision came one month after a transgender woman in Massachusetts was transferred to a women’s prison after suing under the Americans with Disabilities Act — a potentially landmark case because it applies disability protections to people whose sex at birth clashes with their sense of self.Representatives for the doctors did not respond to requests for interviews. Chief Michael Sharkey of the county sheriff’s office, which runs the jail, said that policies had not changed since Ms. Sunderland’s time there, but that guards had “more awareness of transgender people in general.”The jury cleared the jail on charges that its policies denied prisoners necessary care.Ms. Sunderland likened her experience to the plight of the characters in Jon Krakauer’s book “Into Thin Air,” which she read in jail, about a doomed climbing expedition on Mount Everest. The book spoke to her.“Sometimes people have an inborn, personal vision where they must do something, and they’ll risk everything to accomplish what they want,” she said. “People would say, Why would someone do all this just to climb a mountain? But to the climbers, it meant the world to them. Who I am in life — people say that’s not something someone should want to be. The way I see it is, that’s who I am. I’ll do whatever I can to achieve that, as strange as it seems to some people.”Ms. Sunderland felt as early as age 4 that she was born into the wrong gender (she prefers feminine pronouns even in references to her childhood). She wore her sister’s dresses in private and worried about what other children thought of her. She liked her female self — “It was a good feeling,” she said — but felt a lot of anxiety and depression at home.Her father, she said, was intimidating and critical, with a short temper she feared setting off.By adolescence she thought she might be gay but did not have any gay friends; with her straight friends, she felt she didn’t belong.“I wished I could just go someplace away and be who I want to be,” she recalled, “but not here.”Like the climbers in “Into Thin Air,” she felt compelled toward something, but did not yet know how to get there. She dropped out of high school and used drugs to deal with the tensions in her body and at home. When that did not work, she took enough pills to black out and woke up in a hospital.“I just couldn’t take it anymore,” she said in court, “and I didn’t see any other way of getting out of myself.”Her life at home was stifling. She was in the wrong home, the wrong body, feeling increasing desire to transition, “like a weight” she was carrying around.Several times she tried returning to high school, but did not stick. “The people I knew weren’t the best of influences,” she said.The army looked like a way out, maybe a path to a career. In 2007, with the war going in Iraq, she enlisted, following her grandfather and father. The army represented everything her life on Long Island was not. It offered clarity and opportunity.“I wanted the experience,” she said. “Even though I still had my issues going on, I wanted to try it to see how it felt. My parents were happy that I was getting out of the house.”Our experience of gender is sometimes described as an interaction among anatomy, identity and expression. When our biological sex lines up with how we see ourselves and how we express ourselves to others, then gender feels like a seamless whole.When the three panes do not line up, the condition is called gender dysphoria or incongruence. Advocates liken it to pregnancy: requiring medical care, but not a disease or a disorder.For Ms. Sunderland, the parts clashed, and she was living in the spaces where they did not line up.“It actually got worse as time went on,” she said. “It was becoming more of a burden keeping it inside.”At training camp in Texas, she quit smoking and got in the best shape of her life. She became engaged to a woman and adjusted to the discipline of basic training.ImageDespite having won a judgment in October for being denied hormone therapy in jail, Ms. Sunderland has not seen any money yet.CreditAnnie Tritt for The New York TimesWhen she shipped out to a base in southern Iraq, near Basra, she worked with a close group of soldiers in food services. “I was out of where I was living,” she said. “There were people I could talk to.”She felt more than ever the need to transition, and she saw a way to get there.The internet was full of vendors selling hormones, and how-to stories from people in transition. It did not seem that complicated, she said.“I think I’m a pretty fairly decent researcher,” she said. “I can discern stuff. I go online and I would compare 20 people’s regimens and say, all right, these three sound like they know what they’re doing. I kind of made my own regimen.”Still, she knew she was on shaky ground. “I’m ordering prescription drugs over the internet on a military base in Iraq,” she said. “I was wondering how that was going to play out.”She told her fiancée that she planned to transition to living as a woman. When the engagement collapsed, she said, she was “a little heartbroken.”But the hormones were changing her both physically and emotionally. Despite the breakup, her mood lifted, and some of the daily stress she carried around seemed to fall away. Even as the physical changes became noticeable, no one in her unit said anything.“I felt I could accomplish more,” she said. “I could think more clearly. I didn’t have something constantly bothering me. It was like a burden got lifted off of me. It was something that was draining energy out of me for years. I was actually happy. It felt good.”How common was Ms. Sunderland’s experience in the Suffolk County jail? At trial, her lawyer, David Shanies, introduced records of 11 transgender inmates who he said had been denied hormone therapy for all or part of their time there. The jail disputes this.One was Alyssa Giordano, who had legally changed her name and gender on her birth certificate and other records by the time she arrived there in 2015, three years after Ms. Sunderland.She, too, said she was not given the hormone medication she had been taking before her arrest, and she was housed with men, even after a judge at her arraignment ordered that she be housed with women.“I had to shower in front of men,” Ms. Giordano said. In a lawsuit filed by Mr. Shanies, she alleges that she was groped by a guard and strip-searched in front of male inmates.Chief Sharkey, the deputy sheriff, confirmed that the jail segregates inmates according to “current anatomical status,” and that male officers search those assigned to male housing.“I was crying almost every day,” Ms. Giordano said. “They did things for no reason. I didn’t give them a hard time. I never want to go through that again. No one should go through that.”She added: “It haunts me. It haunts me in my sleep. It just haunts me. It’s like I’m screaming but no one hears me.“Transgenders have always been the bottom of the pit. It’s not an easy life. I’m happy with who I am, but to go through what I had to go through, I would never want to have to go through that again.”For Ms. Sunderland, the complications began after she returned home from Iraq in 2009. She found doctors to prescribe the hormones she had bought off the internet, including those at the Veterans Affairs hospital in Manhattan.But she developed a growth on her liver that moved her doctors to discontinue the estrogen, maintaining only the testosterone blockers.“I started going into menopause, having hot flashes,” she said. “It wasn’t as bad as I thought it was going to be, stopping estrogen. It wasn’t like I was transitioning back into a male. I probably looked better, because I was sweating out a lot. It was a little weird.”Finally she had the liver growth surgically removed, through an incision running all the way across her abdomen, and her doctors cleared her to resume the estrogen. But the surgery put her out of work, and she started to buy street drugs to manage the pain from the operation, then for recreation. Soon she and an acquaintance were robbing houses to get money for drugs, including heroin and crack cocaine. In September 2012, when she took stolen goods to a pawnshop, she and her accomplice were arrested.For 16 months, until she was finally transferred to a prison upstate, she received neither the estrogen nor the testosterone blockers.At trial, the doctors testified that they cut off treatment out of concern that the liver growth might return. They also testified that they were unfamiliar with treating transgender people, and that they did not attempt to learn more about it.Q. When you were assessing Ms. Sunderland’s medical care, you did not take any steps to inform yourself about the proper treatment of gender dysphoria, correct? A. I didn’t know where to start. The jury found that the doctors had violated her rights under the 14th Amendment to equal protection of the law. Advocates for transgender rights hope the verdict makes facilities think twice before denying care.But for Ms. Sunderland, it has not changed her life. Though the verdict came in October, she has not received any money yet, and she has been unable to find work, even after earning a certificate in medical billing and coding at a nearby technical school.For now she remains on Long Island with her sister and parents, stuck in the town she tried to escape a decade ago, waiting to get on with her life.Under the conditions of her parole she cannot stay out past 9 p.m., so she is largely isolated except through her computer, with few transgender acquaintances. She gave up her car because she could not afford it.Her classmates in the medical billing program found jobs, she said, but she has not. She was not sure what role bias played.She said she has gotten used to using women’s bathrooms, and that no one had bothered her for it.“A couple weeks ago, I was parked in a fire zone for two seconds, and here comes a cop behind me telling me I have to move. He’s calling me ma’am, and when he sees the registration with the name Jeremy Sunderland, he’s like, Who’s Jeremy Sunderland, is that your husband? I’m like, No, that’s me. And he’s like, Oh, O.K. That was a little weird. Most of my picture ID’s have me as a woman. But unfortunately my legal name is still Jeremy. He’s like, Have a good day, ma’am.”Thanks to the court verdict, she was almost amused.For Ms. Giordano, though, the wounds of her experience were still raw.After one month in the Suffolk County jail, she was transferred to a unit for transgender women at Rikers Island, where pat searches were conducted by two guards: a woman for the top half, a man for the bottom. Now out on probation, she is seeking damages of $1 million.“I would tell them that God is going to punish them,” she said of the Suffolk County jail staff. “Because I believe in God, and what you’re doing is wrong, and they knew what they did was wrong. It’s like a restaurant. Nobody ever leaves without paying. Life always has a way of getting a person back.”A version of this article appears in print on , on Page MB1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Right to Transition in Jail. 

Events Are the New Magazines - The New York Times
SectionsSEARCHSkip to contentSkip to site indexStyleSubscribeLog InLog InToday’s PaperStyle|Events Are the New MagazinesAdvertisementSupported byEvents Are the New MagazinesAnd Nicole Vecchiarelli and Andrea Oliveri, the founders of an agency called Special Projects, are here to celebrify them. ImageNicole Vecchiarelli and Andrea Oliveri with the actress Melanie Liburd during a recent event for Town & Country at the Standard hotel.CreditCreditNina Westervelt for The New York TimesBy Katherine RosmanFeb. 2, 2019On a recent Thursday evening, Jordan Roth, a Broadway producer of “Angels in America” and “Kinky Boots,” was serving as the M.C. of a party hosted by Town & Country magazine on the top floor of the Standard Hotel in downtown Manhattan. Wearing sequined pants and a jeweled hairpin, he kvelled with Kelly Ripa, dressed in blue velvet. Ms. Ripa presented an award to Lizzie Tisch, a supporter of jewelry designers, whom the event was honoring. Adam Rippon, the effervescent skating star, was there too, as was Lady Kitty Spencer, an English fashion model who perched on a chair, dripping in Bulgari, which pays her to do just that.The celebrities were all being tended to by Nicole Vecchiarelli and Andrea Oliveri, the founders of a company called (with insidery resonance for anyone in the magazine business) Special Projects. That has long been a euphemistic term for editors who wrangle celebrities and are cozy with publicists. Ms. Oliveri and Ms. Vecchiarelli, both 43, are former special projects and entertainment editors, at publications including Details, W, Teen Vogue and InStyle, and now work with people like Stellene Volandes, the editor in chief of Town & Country, founded more than a century ago.In an era when glossy print publications are floundering and relying on revenue and publicity from conferences and the like, Special Projects is helping take the page to the stage. ImageGet me head shots! Ms. Oliveri and Ms. Vecchiarelli in their office.CreditNina Westervelt for The New York TimesThey are what the Business of Fashion events, a New York magazine/The Cut “How I Get It Done Day,” speaking opportunities at the women’s club the Wing, a Kate Spade advertising campaign, a Kanye West listening party in Wyoming and a WSJ. Magazine dinner hosted by Julia Roberts all have in common.This week, the company was hired by Glossier, the cosmetics brand that grew out of the Into the Gloss blog, to broker talent for a forthcoming marketing campaign.A big part of Ms. Vecchiarelli and Ms. Oliveri’s business is predicting who tomorrow’s stars will be. At the Town & Country soiree, they were shepherding Melanie Liburd, cast this season as a regular on “This Is Us.”“I’m the new girl on a hit show, and it is so wonderful that I get to meet all these new people,” Ms. Liburd said, wearing a bright Kelly-green suit. She huddled with Ms. Oliveri and Ms. Vecchiarelli, all chatting like they were old friends.“Amazing!” Ms. Oliveri said in response to a remark from the actress.Ms Vecchiarelli said, “Facts!” Special Projects’ offices (one in New York, where Ms. Vecchiarelli lives; one in Los Angeles, where Ms. Oliveri does) are now an essential stop on the press tours of young and rising celebrities. There, the women meet and chat with the young artists, to get a sense of their personal stories, charm, intelligence and ambitions. ImagePolaroid dreams: from the wall of would-be celebrities in the Special Projects office.CreditNina Westervelt for The New York TimesThey take Polaroids and put them up on a wall, a mural of before-they-were-famous and who’s-that? that already includes Naomi Scott of “Power Rangers,” the “Sharp Objects” actress Eliza Scanlen, Letitia Wright of “Black Panther” and the actor Harvey Guillen.The partners think Mr. Guillen, who has a role on the coming FX show “What We Do in the Shadows,” is going to break through. “I really wanted him to be a presenter at the Jewelry Awards,” Ms. Vecchiarelli said. But she didn’t think the logistics would work.She booked Mr. Roth after meeting with him last fall at his publicist’s request. During a three-hour coffee date, they discussed his goals and the ways that he might expand his public profile. “A love explosion,” Ms. Vecchiarelli said. As a champion of fashion and culture, he seemed the perfect host for a magazine event. “There is something about the DNA of Jordan’s career and persona that overlaps completely with the DNA of Town & Country,” she said.Mr. Roth was indeed a hit. “Raise your hand if you spent your childhood trying on your mother’s or grandmother’s jewelry,” he instructed the crowd. “And that is why we are all here tonight! Also why some of us are gay.” Everyone ate it up.“This is the most genius business model,” Mr. Roth said of Special Projects, before the ceremony began. “It’s the type of thing where everyone is going to be asking why they didn’t think of it before.”The Golden YearsMs. Oliveri and Ms. Vecchiarelli started to work in the magazine industry just as celebrities were replacing models as the preferred cover subjects.Ms. Oliveri, called Dre by those who know her, started her career in 1997 at W magazine as the assistant to the creative director and later became a photo and bookings editor, scheduling photographers, models, makeup artists and stylists. She then moved to Details, where she remained for a decade, choosing talent for the cover.This was a more challenging job. Details had been brought back to life in 2000 after having been closed and was seen as a less important stepbrother to GQ. “We weren’t first on the list for hot male actors,” Ms. Oliveri said. Also, to get any attention on the newsstand — newsstands were still a factor then — she and her colleagues knew they needed to poke fun at the celebrities they were highlighting. For an Owen Wilson cover that Ms. Oliveri had booked, the magazine cover line read: “Who Picked This Nose to Rescue Hollywood?” Another issue’s cover line: “Adrien Brody Loves Being Famous.”“There was a lot to learn here,” she said. “How do you connect with your reader and stand out from the homogenized magazine pack without alienating the Hollywood community you need?”ImagePersonalities are important, print is optional: Ms. Vecchiarelli and Ms. Oliveri.CreditNina Westervelt for The New York TimesMs. Vecchiarelli has hopped from magazine to magazine through her career, familiarizing herself with different audiences’ tastes. She started as an intern at Elle in 1998, before becoming an assistant at Mirabella, whose audience was older and culturally sophisticated.She next joined Us Weekly in 2000, the year the magazine went from a monthly to a weekly publication. She often needed to book four celebrity photo shoots and interviews per week. “Boot camp,” Ms. Vecchiarelli called it. She focused on looking for emerging stars to feed the beast. Then she went to Premiere (R.I.P.), then in 2002 to Teen Vogue.In its print heyday, Teen Vogue was edited by Amy Astley, an exacting protégée of Anna Wintour. For any given entertainment feature, Ms. Vecchiarelli had to learn how to please many masters: Ms. Astley, Ms. Wintour, the publicist, the celebrity, the fashion photographer, the stylist. The goal was to make “the opportunity work for everyone involved, all of whom thought they were the star of the show,” she said.Thanks to Ms. Wintour, Ms. Vecchiarelli was able to establish Teen Vogue as a tryout for young stars hoping to one day receive coverage in Vogue. She booked an early Jake Gyllenhaal’s first cover and one of Emily Blunt’s first big glossy magazine shoots. She worked with Nicole Richie, Bradley Cooper, Channing Tatum, Zac Efron, all of them then young and not the big names they are today.After five years, she landed at Details, where she and Ms. Oliveri quickly became “work wives,” sharing an affinity for both high and low culture. They believed in the importance of landing the right cover star at the right time and also highlighting young actors and actresses before they became household names.Ms. Vecchiarelli hopscotched to InStyle in 2008, and in 2012 she became the founding editor of DuJour, a lifestyle magazine. The same year, Ms. Oliveri left Details to go freelance. She began to work with Kristina O’Neill, who had been named editor in chief of WSJ. Magazine. Ms. O’Neill asked Ms. Oliveri to help her think about cover subjects; these did not have to be solely ones that would “pop” at the newsstand, since the magazine, published 12 times a year, is included with the weekend edition of The Wall Street Journal.For the November 2013 issue, devoted to innovators (and for an accompanying awards ceremony), Ms. Oliveri booked the helmet-wearing electronic music duo Daft Punk, who were enjoying peak fame thanks to “Get Lucky,” the chart-topping collaboration with Pharrell. This was a big “get” because the men under the helmets hide their faces and don’t do a lot of press.Ms. Oliveri and Ms. O’Neill decided to book Gisele Bündchen to pose for the cover shoot with Daft Punk and then to escort them to and from the stage to receive their award, presented by Pharrell, also secured by Ms. Oliveri. “This is so beyond a ‘Get me Gwyneth!’ relationship,” Ms. O’Neill said. “I speak to Dre more than I speak to people who sit 10 feet from me. We are in lock step on everything.” (However, Ms. Oliveri did get Ms. O’Neill Gwyneth, for a cover article and live interview at a tech conference, as well as Kevin Systrom, a founder of Instagram, and the comedian and actor Kevin Hart.)Ms. Oliveri started to get more and more booking business. “Big, big, big celebs were seeing the importance of digital media,” she said. “Then ad campaigns started coming in asking for my help. I was thinking, ‘There is something here.’”Ms. Vecchiarelli was editing DuJour and would join business executives as they met with prospective advertisers. “They would say, ‘I don’t want to advertise with you, but I like your ideas and your connections to talent, and what if instead of buying an ad, we could bring you on as our partner and you could book the talent for this branded content or for an event?’” she said. “People were so hungry for ideas.”During this time, Ms. Oliveri and Ms. Vecchiarelli kept discussing the shifts they were seeing in the magazine industry. “Dre was like, ‘We’re almost 40, we have a long time left in our careers. We can’t just stay on the Titanic till the Titanic goes down,’” Ms. Vecchiarelli said.Programming PotentatesIn 2016 Ms. Vecchiarelli quit her job, and she and Ms. Oliveri opened for business. Town & Country was an early client. Ms. Volandes had just been named editor of the magazine and was charged with bringing contemporary energy while keeping its core coverage of high society and the charity scene.Ms. Vecchiarelli works closely with Ms. Volandes to choose subjects for the cover and does much of the work to book them.They also spend months planning the magazine’s Philanthropy Summit, a daylong event that took place for the first time in 2014. “She understands how to bring the magazine to life in ways that are completely true to what Town & Country readers care about, but also to who they should care about,” Ms. Volandes said.For last year’s summit and a philanthropy issue, Ms. Vecchiarelli booked Lin-Manuel Miranda for a cover; then he and his family appeared on stage to discuss giving as a family tradition. Karlie Kloss appeared on another version of the cover and was interviewed at the summit about her coding-for-girls program, Kode With Klossy, by one its graduates. A third cover and onstage discussion featured March for Our Lives student activists, including Emma Gonzalez and others who survived the Parkland, Fla., school shooting. “Nicole went to Florida and created a bond of trust with those students and their parents,” Ms. Volandes said. “It was Nicole who made it happen.”Lectures, live interviews and panel discussions have become important for companies outside of the media business too. The Wing, the women’s membership club with five spaces in different cities, has hired Special Projects to book celebrities, including Jennifer Lopez, Laura Dern, Aly Raisman and Regina Hall.Amanda Silverman, a founder of the new publicity firm the Lede Company, and a representative for Pharrell, Charlize Theron, John Legend and others, has known the women since they all were coming up in the celebrity-media industrial complex. For an “Incredible Women” event hosted by Porter, Net-a-Porter’s magazine, and promoted by the Lede, Special Projects booked Ms. Theron and chose for her to read a passage by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie on the importance of raising boys right. Storm Reid and Mahershala Ali did a reading of correspondence between Barack Obama and a young girl.“They’re real strategists,” Ms. Silverman said. “There is zero drama with them. They are never not calm, and they are dealing with high-energy, high- intensity situations with demanding people like me.”Gabe Tesoriero, the executive vice president of media and artists relations for Def Jam Recordings, knew Ms. Vecchiarelli when she was at Teen Vogue and had worked with Ms. Oliveri on a Kanye West cover for Details. More recently, he learned from Ms. Silverman that the two women had started casting/celebrity wrangling company. Last May, when he needed to find a slew of celebrities quickly, he turned to them.Mr. West had contacted Mr. Tesoriero with “the spark of the idea,” Mr. Tesoriero said. “He was in Wyoming and said, ‘I need to bring the world to me, to hear the music where it was created.’”ImageKanye West surrounded with friends during the first playing of his latest album, "Ye," at a listening party in Moran, Wyo. Guess who helped organize this?CreditRyan Dorgan for The New York TimesMr. West’s team and the Def Jam staff sprang into action. When discussions turned to the listening party’s guest list, Mr. Tesoriero instantly thought of Special Projects. “I said, ‘I know exactly who should handle this.’”Within 48 hours, Special Projects had 2Chainz, Nas and Big Sean on private planes headed to Jackson Hole, Wyo.The Special Projects women also sent Jonah Hill there. Mr. Hill has known Ms. Vecchiarelli for years, and she booked him for his first real photo shoot, for Teen Vogue. When she reached out while he was in a meeting with Scott Rudin, he left mid-meeting to get clothes at home and immediately left for the trip.“The millennials go crazy for experiences,” said Mr. Hill in a phone interview he gave while in an Uber on his way to therapy.The hip-hop junket got him thinking. In a few months, his own project would be released: “Mid90s,” the first film he directed, which explores friendship, skateboarding and hip-hop culture.“I was like, ‘Why isn’t Nicole throwing all these, curating screenings and amazing events, things that would be experiential?’” he said. He and his producer Eli Bush then hired Special Projects to invite the right people. “They have incredible ideas,” Mr. Hill said of Ms. Oliveri and Ms. Vecchiarelli. His favorite has been one to hire Prince Paul to D.J. the party after the hip-hop tastemaker screening. Mr. Paul is a recording artist who was prolific in the 1990s.ImageJessica Chastain on the red carpet at opening night of "To Kill a Mockingbird"at the Shubert Theater. Political activists and intellectuals were also invited.CreditRebecca Smeyne for The New York TimesWell, that got Mr. Bush thinking. He was starting to plan opening night for a Broadway play that Mr. Bush was producing with Mr. Rudin and Barry Diller: Aaron Sorkin’s adaptation of “To Kill a Mockingbird.” Mr. Bush brought on Special Projects to help fill the theater and party afterward with whomever they thought should be there, he said. Among those on the Special Projects list: Oprah Winfrey, Spike Lee and Hasan Minhaj (formerly of “The Daily Show”) But the women also invited activists and intellects like Brittany Packnett, who is a police reform activist and a “Pod Save the People” host, and Darnell Moore, the author of “No Ashes in the Fire.”These are people who would not otherwise have been on Mr. Bush’s radar. Of Special Projects, he said, “We would hire them for anything and everything, and plan to.” Katherine Rosman is a features reporter. She covers media, social media and celebrity — and the way in which they intersect and collide. She joined The Times in 2014.
@katierosman A version of this article appears in print on , on Page ST1 of the New York edition with the headline: Wrangling Celebrities: It’s a Specialty. 
